 
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 4 
 SECTION 4 – ELIGIBILIT Y CR ITERIA (CONTINUED)  4. Select the skill(s) that will be acquired by eligible Canadian students participating in the project. These skills must be detailed in the training plan included in the proposal (see Section 7 of this application form): 5. If applicable: List any other skill(s) not outlined in question 4 that will be acquired by eligible Canadian students participating in the project. These skills must be detailed in the training plan included in the proposal (see Section 7 of this application form): Project management (resourcing, scheduling, compliance with budgets and risk management) Design and implementation of science investigations Mechanical, optical or electrical engineering systems Payload and/or satellite assembly, integration, testing and operation Software development Satellite environmental testing and operation Data collection and analysis Interpersonal communication and leadership Problem solving Requirement verification and validation Preparation for design reviews Public Outreach 
6. Please describe how your project will contribute to at least  one (1) priority outlined in the Space Strategy for Canada  (see 
CUBICS AO Section 3.3):  The RADSAT -SK2 CubeSat project aims to inspire the next gene ration of Canadians to reach for the stars by providing an 
opportunity for current undergraduate and graduate students in Saskatchewan to be involved in an actual space mission. 
The project also intends to promote space and space -related fields to Sask atch ewan youth through presentations and other 
community outreach activities . 
 
By preparing  highly skilled engineers and scientists for the jobs of the future, this mission will help to grow Canada's 
commercial space sector and the economy more broadly.  The team intends to collaborate  with various space companies 
within Canada, including Galaxia Mission Systems , Magnestar Inc.,  and Calian A dvanced Technologies , further contributing 
to the economic development of this sector .  
 
While RADSAT -SK2 will yield benefi ts for the country as a whole, its potential impact in Saskatchewan is particularly exciting.  
The project will establish a  partnership between the University of Saskatchewan and the University of Regina,  allowing 
students and researchers from across the pr ovince to work together, learn from one another, and ultimately plant the seeds 
for the future of the aerospace industry in Saskatchewan.  Furthermore, we intend to bring Saskatchewan Polytechnic  into  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 5 
the RADSAT -SK2 team in the future, which would result i n all major post -secondary institutions within the province being 
part of this project.   Such a province -wide effort has the potential to generate significant excitement and provincial pride, 
truly inspiring the next generation to reach for the stars.    
 
RADSAT -SK2 will  include numerous payloads that will materially contribute to space research and drive innovation and 
technological advances within Canada by collecting and using space -based data throughout the life of the satellite.   The 
project will test a  newly  developed radiation -hardened microcontroller, MOSFET -based radiation sensors and melanin as a 
radiation shielding method within a polar orbit. In addition to radiation -based research, the RADSAT -SK2 satellite will house 
a deployable boom or weighted  tethe r for the purpose of attitude control enhancement research and will capture images of 
Earth and cloud coverage to assist in developing a further  understanding of climate change causes and effects.  7. Will your project aim at increasing our understand ing o f the causes and effects of climate change and/or will contri bute to 
fighting climate change?  Yes (provide details) : No The RADSAT -SK2 project will collect images of the Earth and perform post -processin g in order to determine and examine  
cloud coverage . This will aid in developing a better understanding  of the causes and effects of climate change , as cloud  
coverage  is an indicator of various atmospheric processes and can predict warming effects.  SECTIO N 4 – ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA (CONTINUED)  8. If applicable ( MANDATORY FOR STREAM 2):  Specify what science data collection and analysis will be conducted : The RADSAT -SK2 research project will involve a significant amount of data collection and  analysis once the CubeSat is in 
orbit. The satellite will facilitate investigations into radiation -tolerant electronics by collecting performance data from two 
different microcontrollers : a commercial off the shelf (COS) option and an innovative radiation -hardened microcontroller 
developed by a research team  at the University of Saskatchewan  led by  Dr. Li Chen. Both microcontrollers will be monitored 
for unexpected reboots and other anomalies during operation  in space . The performance results  of the two sy stem s will be 
compared and analysed .  It is hoped that  the radiation tolerant microcontroller  will display fewer unexpected failures  than 
the COS system , demonstrating its reliability and utility for future space missions.   
 
Radiation sensing data will be collected from both a traditional RADFET dosimeter and an experimental MOSFET dosimeter, 
also developed by Dr. Li Chen, to be analysed for the purpose of comparing radiation measurement accuracy results within a 
polar orbit. The RADFET dosimeter results wi ll serve as a reference  and be used to evaluate the performance of the MOSFET 
dosimeter. The dosimeter board will be coated with  varying amounts and types of synthetic melanin , developed  by Dr. Kate 
Dadachova at the University of Saskatchewan .  When the sa tellite is in space,  radiation dosage data will be collected to 
analyse the feasibility of melanin as a radiation shielding method within a polar orbit .  In addition to radiation -based data 
collection, RADSAT -SK2 will take images of cloud coverage s from po lar orbit .  Through post -processing,  the extent and 
density of cloud coverage over differ ent regions will be examined,  which is anticipated  to enable a better understanding of 
the causes and effects of climate change. The satellite will also house an ext endable boom as one of the payloads  for the 
purpose  of attitude control enhancement. Attitude determination and control systems (ADCS) data will be collected and 
analysed to investigate  the effects the boom has on the orientation and stability  of the satelli te and evaluat e the usefulness 
of extendable booms in future space missions .  
  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 6 
 
 
 
 
 9. If applicable (MANDATORY FOR STREAM 2):  Do you attest that you have sufficient ca pability in the following areas:  • Ability to obtain licenses for  required radio frequenci es: Yes  No • Access to ground  station facility or facilities:  Yes  No 10. If applicable: List all other funding that was awarded to the applicant (institution) by the CSA in the last 5 years and that was allocated to a similar project (i.e. related directly or indirectly to the project that is being submitted for funding under the CUBICS 2022 AO). Indicate below the name of the funding opportunity (i.e. the AO or RFP), the total value of the funding received, and the title of the project that was funded. Failure to declare this information accurately may result in the application being rejected.  N/A: Not applicable Name of funding opportunity (i.e. the AO or RFP)  Total value of funding  
received  Title of the funded project  Canadian CubeSat Project (CCP)  $200,000  RADSAT -SK                                                                                                                                                                                                         SECTION 4 – ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA (CONTINUED)   
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 7 
11. If applicable: If you listed other funding in question 10 above, please provide a clear explanation of how the proposed project activities that would be funded under the CUBICS 2022 AO are complementary in nature and do not overlap with those of the previously-funded project.  N/A: Not applicable The proposed RADSAT -SK2 project will complement the preceding RADSAT -SK CubeSat, whic h was funded through the 
Canadian CubeSat Project (CCP). Although both projects have a primary motivation of radiation research in space, 
RADSAT -SK2 will be a second, more advanced iteration with innovative payload additions.  
 
The original RADSAT -SK projec t is a 2U Cub eSat .  At the time of this application,  it is expected to launch from the 
International Space Station (ISS) in the latter half of 2023. The project consists of two primary payloads, which include a 
newly developed metal oxide semiconductor fie ld effect tr ansistor (MOSFET) -based dosimeter technology and synthetic 
melanin coating. The MOSFET dosimeter is significantly less expensive than current RADFET options and will be evaluated 
to determine functionality in comparison. The synthetic melanin c oating will be used to determine the feasibility of 
melanin as a radiation shielding method within space. Data results from both payloads will be analysed from the ISS orbit.  
 
The CUBICS AO will provide an opportunity to advance the research into  MOSFET -based dosimet ry and  melanin -based 
radiation shielding that was initiated  on the RADSAT -SK project.  Due to RADSAT -SK2's  high inclination polar orbit , it will 
allow for the collection of radiation data complementary to that from RADSAT -SK, which was in an IS S orbit.  Combining 
the data from the two orbits will provide a more complete picture of the suitability of the proposed technologies for use 
in future space missions.   Additionally, the experiment will be expanded upon by considering different types of bulk 
melanin for radiation shielding beyond what was considered in RADSAT -SK.  Furthermore, hardening the shielding 
material with melanin nanoparticles to investigate if the result s have a  more effective radiation shielding tha n hardening 
with bulk melanin  will take pla ce.  
 
RADSAT -SK2 will also contain new payloads and implement new mission objectives beyond those of  the original RADSAT -
SK. The performance of a newly developed radiation -hardened microcontroller with RISC -v instruction set architecture 
will be  compared t o a standard microcontroller,  in order to determine its suitability for use in space.  Custom made, 
radiation -hardened computer chips are relatively uncommon, especially ones with RISC -v architecture, so test ing one in 
orbit would provide unique scientific data. The second new payload  housed by RADSAT -SK2 is an extendable boom or 
weighted tether which will aid in furthering research into spacecraft attitude control.  
 
Many members that participated in the CCP funded project will also begin the CUB ICS projec t, providing an opportunity 
for students to contribute to the end of one CubeSat and the beginning of another , thereby experiencing the entire 
lifecycle of CubeSat development . As the RADSAT -SK2 project progresses and more members become involved , the 
numb er of students learning valuable technical and soft skills will increase. Those who contributed to RADSAT -SK gained a 
significant amount of knowledge, and RADSAT -SK2 will further these learnings and provide similar  opportunities to a new 
group of  students.  The original CCP funded project generated  a partnership between the University of Saskatchewan and 
Saskatchewan Polytechnic, but was purely a Saskatoon -based endeavour.  RADSAT -SK2 will also involve  the University of 
Regina , making the project a  truly pro vincial effort.  The goal is to include all major post -secondary institutions in 
Saskatchewan  providing all students within the province an opportunity to contribute to a space research project.  
 
 
 
 
  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 8 
12. If applicable (MANDATORY FOR STREAM 2):  Indicate whic h orbit you considered when developing your proposal (see 
CUBICS AO Section 6. 3): 
 
 Nominal orbit at 400 km altitude and 51º inclination  corresponding to an ISS orbit . 
 Nominal orbit at 400 -500 km altitude and sun -synchron ous inclination  (high inclination orbit ).  SECTION 5 – SUMMARY OF PROJECT  Please provide a summary (maximum  of 350 words ) of the project using terminology that is appropriate for public dissemination. 
This summary will be necessary if your prop osal is s elected. The summary should address the following items : 
• Project purpose  
• Main objectives  
• State of scientific and technological knowledge  
• Specify if your project stands alone or if it follows previous activities. If so, specify where your project f its in th e overall 
sequence of development  
• Expected outcomes/results  with respect to scientific knowledge and/or technological development and student training  
• Benefits to the Canadian population  
• Examples of a concrete application that could be derive d from the pro ject (if applicable)  
 
Please note that first -person pronounces (e.g. we, I) should not be used in the Summary of Project . The RADSAT -SK2 project’s main purpose is to enable Saskatchewan post -secondary students  to develop the skills a nd knowl edge 
necessary to participate in the Canadian aerospace industry, while contributing to scientific research in space technologies .  A 
major goal of the project is to bring together the University of Saskatchewan and University of Regina under the c ommon effort 
of ins piring students from all across Saskatchewan to reach for the stars.    
 
More specifically, the objectives of RADSAT -SK2 include demonstrating and evaluating the effectiveness of new radiation -
mitigating technologies for computer hardware  in spac e, engaging students in unique hands -on learning, and educating the 
public about Canad a's and Saskatchewan 's contributions to STEM.  The skills students learn in this project will support many 
Canadian industries with capable and valuable employees  in the future.   
 
The RADSAT -SK2 project will build upon the University of Saskatchewan's long history of radiation -based research and conduct 
experiments relate d to radiation sensing and shielding  in space .  A novel radiation -hardened microcontroller design will be 
tested to evaluate its suitability for future space missions . Additionally,  an extendabl e boom  payload developed at the University 
of Regina  will enable experiments into new methods of controlling the orientation  and stability of satellites in space .  
 
A high inclination sun -synchronous orbit will enable testing of radiation sensors and shieldi ng technology, previously tested in 
RADSAT -SK, in an environment with new radiation characteristics to expand the depth and breadth of understanding of th e 
performance and capabilities of these new technologies.  This orbit also provides greater access to the entire globe for remote 
sensing using an onboard camera for cloud coverage analysis research  aimed at  gain ing a better understanding of the causes and  
effects of climate change.  
The applications of this research are interdisciplinary.  Results from this project will support wireless communication in locations 
with high radiation levels, enhance our understanding of climate change research , and provide e ducational opportunities for 
both participating members and participants in education al outreach experiences.  Images from the camera will be shared 
publicly as part of an advocacy campaign to spark more interest in space exploration, Earth observation, an d climate science.   
 
 
    
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 9 
Please describe the project using keywords (maximum of 10 ) separated by semi -colons.   Students ; Experience; Learning; Outreach; Inspire ; CubeSat; Science ; Research; Radiation; Attitude control . Please specify the  discipline of the project using keywords (maximum of 10) separated by semi -colons.  Computer Engineering; Biomedical Science; Engineering Physics; Atmospheric Science; Software Engineering; Education; Physics;  
Chemistry ; Mechanical Engineerin g; Electrical Engineering . Project duration (up to 2 .5 years including a test campa ign for Stream 1 and up to 3 years  including an operation phase , data 
collection and analysis  for Stream 2):  
 Estimated start date:  Estimated date of completion:  03/2023  03/2026  SECTION 5 – SUMMARY OF PROJECT (CONTINUED)  Have you confirmed access to  the following:  Electronics workshop:  Yes (provide details):  
The RADSAT -SK2 team has access to a room 
located  on the University of Saskatchewan 
campus in the College of Engineering building. 
The tea m has unlimited access to this area, which 
is used exclusively for the team's project work, 
and it contains all of the necessary equipment for 
an electronics workshop, alo ng with 
knowledgeable members who have experience 
using this equipment. This includes  a soldering 
station, a variety of mechanical hand tools, 
oscilloscopes, power supplies, multimeters,  
signal generators, and test equipment . The team 
has experience design ing, prototyping, and 
testing multiple printed circuit boards ( PCBs ) in 
this electron ics workshop area.  
 
 No (indicate how it will be procured):  
      
 
Assembly facility:  
 Yes (provide details):  
The University of Saskatchewan has a clean room 
facility located within the College of Engineering 
building , which belongs to the RADSAT -SK team 
for the specific purpose of b uilding a CubeSat. 
This facility contains an ISO 8 and ISO 9 portion, 
and the project team will have unlimited access 
to the clean room at all times. Many members 
are already clean room trained and aware of the 
standards and protocols involved in working 
within the facility.  
 No (indicate how it will be procured):  
      
  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 10 
Ground station :  
(MANDATORY FOR 
STREAM 2 ) N/A: Not applicable  
Yes (provide details ): 
RADSAT -SK2 will have access to a ground station 
located on  the University of Saskatchewan  
campus. This building i s owned by the Physics 
Department and was used by the first RADSAT -SK 
project.  The facility contains the necessary 
equipment to communicate with a satellite, and 
the team consists of members with HAM radio 
licenses, some with their advanced license. At 
the time of the CUBICS launch, the RADSAT -SK2 
team will have extensive experience operating a 
ground station  and communicating with a 
satellite . 
 No (indicate how it will be procured):  
      
 
 SECTION 6 – PROJECT OBJECTIVES  Please provide a brief list of the overall primary objectives  of your scientific payload project (Stream 1 ) or of your end -to-end 
CubeSat mission project (Stream 2) . If you are awarded a grant, these obj ectives will be populated  in the progress and final 
reports  that will be required by the CSA . You can elaborate on these objectives in the project proposal (Section 7). Please insert 
additional rows as needed.  1. Design and build an on -board computer (OBC)  including a radiation -hardened central processing unit (CPU)  2. Use data processed on an OBC with space heritage to evaluate a new radiation -hardened RISC processor  3. Determine and study the effectiveness of melanin for radiation shielding in  polar orbits   4. Use and study the effectiveness of a deployable boom or weighted tether as a passive atti tude control enhancement  5. Collect cloud coverage data to support further understanding of the causes and effect s of climate change  6. Provide an opportunity for students to gain skills and knowledge that will enable their entry i nto the aerospace industry   7. Capture images of the Earth from space for public education purposes  8.   9.                
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 11 
SECTION 7 – PROPOSAL   Please attach a document to your application form that describes the propose d scientific payload project (Stream 1) or end -to-
end CubeSat project (Stream 2) and that respects the following guidel ines:  
 
• The cover page of the attachment must contain the title of the proposal, the name of the PI and the legal name of the 
organization  requesting the grant;  
• The document must be limited to a maximum of 40 pages ( excluding  the application form, cover pag e, ref erences, 
detailed implementation schedule,  résumés , letters of support,  letters of other funding contributors confirming their 
contributions, document(s) confirming the legal name of the applicant,  and the M -30 form if applicable);  
• The document mus t use a common format with 12 pt. type face, letter -sized paper and 1” margins;  
• The document must be saved in one of the following format s: .DOC, .DOCX, .PDF, .RTF, .TXT;  
• Figures are welcome as long as they are embedded in the text;  
• Appropriate references should  be listed at the end of the project description.  
 
The document must include all of the headings and all of the information outline d below:  
 INTRODUCTION  
Please provide a brief description of the project including the objectives (as indic ated in Sec tion 6  of this application f orm) and 
the main scientific and/or technical merits of the proposed project ( scientific payload for projects  under Stream 1 and end -to-
end CubeSat  for projects under Stream 2).  
 
For an end -to-end CubeSat project under Stream 2 , pleas e describe:  
• The privileged orbit if launched is  procured (CUBICS AO Section 6.3 ); and  
• The data collection and analysis planned to be conducted.  
 
RESEARCH PROJECT AND PROPOSED TRAINING  
 
1. BENEFITS FOR CANADA  AND OUTCOMES  
 
1.1 Proposed project  
Each propos al must have as its mandatory objective to train postsecondary students. In addition to that objective  (which must be 
detailed in t he training plan ), each proposal must clearly identify the main scientific and/or technological purpose of the 
proposed  proje ct (payload for projects under Stream 1 and end -to-end CubeSat  for projects under Stream 2). I ts probable impact 
and potential to a dvance scientific knowledge and/or to enable the development of new technologies in priority areas  must also 
be explain ed.  
In defining the mission objective(s), the applicant could first consult the open literature to become familiar with what has been 
achieved with CubeSats elsewhere and the types of missions (e.g., earth observation, imaging, or space physics) that coul d be 
accomplished by students with the end goal of increasing expertise related to space science and/or space technology. Section B.6  
of the CUBICS AO presents information on mission ideas.  
While the envisaged mission objectives should be stimulating and motiva ting, they should be commensurate with the team's 
space expertise and experience.  
Ensure the following questions a re addressed:  
• Does the project clearly presents a probable impact and/or a potential to advance scientific knowledge and/or to enable 
the dev elopment of new technologies that would contribute to advance space science knowledge in priority areas as 
per the Space Strategy f or Canada (CUBICS AO Section 3.3 )?  
• Is the project original?  
  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 12 
SECTION 7 – PROPOSAL (CONTINUED)  1.2 Training plan  
The info rmation provided in this section will be used to assess the quality, relevance, and diversity of the experience that the 
students w ill acquire through the proposed t raining plan (excluding the support and guidance that the CSA may provide). The 
expec ted im pact of the experience, knowledge and professional skills to be acquired by the students will also be evaluated. 
Applicants are str ongly encouraged to consult the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada’s (NSERC)  
Discovery Grants (individual) prog ram - Instructions for completing an application  website (section entitled “ Highly qualified 
personnel (HQP) training plan ”) as a tool to prepare their training plan.  
 
Ensure the following questions are addressed:  
• Does the training plan specify the activi ties in which the students will participate during the project?  
• Do the training activities suit the academic level of t he stu dents involved in the project?  
• What is the involvement of the students in the project?  
• What is the expected training value of the proposed project?  
• Is information provided on the method (s) that will be used to supervise the students?  
• What are the p lanned  contributions of the trainers (PI and Co -I) to the trainees?  
• Will the students gain knowledge and experience that is relevant to t he development of their professional careers, and 
will the CUBICS project provide a stepping stone to the students to h igher education in STEM or future employment 
opportunities in the space sector?   
• Specifically, how will the training plan enable particip ating students to develop some or all of the following skills:  
o Project management (resourcing, scheduling, compliance w ith bu dgets and risk management);  
o Design and implementation of science investigations;  
o Mechanical, optical or electrical engineering syst ems;  
o Payload and/or satellite assembly, integration, testing and operation;  
o Software development;  
o Satellite environment al tes ting and operation;  
o Data collection and analysis;  
o Interpersonal communication and leadership;  
o Problem solving;  
o Requirement verifica tion and validation;  
o Preparation for design reviews.  
Notes:  
• The PI has the responsibility to define the training plan o f each  student involved. The level and content of training 
should be appropriate to the academic background of the student.  
• Applicants s hould take into account the possibility of student turnovers and put in place a shadowing strategy. In the 
event a stud ent le aves the project, such a strategy ensures that the knowledge remains with the project team and thus 
minimizes the negative impact o n the project.  
• The training plan should include opportunities for interaction and collaboration with other researchers or HQP , at all 
levels, inside and outside the organization, where appropriate.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 13 
SECTION 7 – PROPOSAL (CONTINUED)  1.3  Equity,  Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)  
The information provided in this section will be used to evaluate whether the proposal i nclude s a meaningful plan to foster 
recruitment and engagement of members from underrepresented groups, in particular women and Indigenou s Peoples, within 
the research team. Applicants are strongly encouraged to consult NSERC’s Guide on integrating equity, diversity and inclusion 
considerations in research , in particular Section 2 , Equity, diversity and inclusion considerations for research teams  as a tool to 
prep are their EDI plan.  
 
Ensure the following question is addressed:  
• Does the research project meaningfully engage members  of un derrepresented groups within the research team through 
the engagement of students, PDFs, faculty and partners? Underrepresented gro ups include, but are not limited to, the 
four designated groups (women, Indigenous Peoples, members of visible minoriti es, an d persons with disabilities). 
Applicants can consult the Employment equity  website for definitions of each group.  
1.4  Public engagement plan  
CUBICS is expected to stimulate the interest in space science and technology among young Canadians such that they will be 
encouraged  to pursue advance d STEM education.  
 
The information provided in this section will be used to evaluate the nature, bre adth, relevance, feasibility and effectiveness of 
the proposed activities. The proposal must include a public engagement plan that includ es specific activities such as:  
• Web -based utilities and social media tools;  
• In-class "Show and Tell" activities;  
• Local,  regio nal or national papers and/or journals;  
• Speaking engagements and presentations to secondary and post -secondary schools;  
• Radio or te levision interviews;  
• Presentations at conferences; and/or  
• Teaching workshops.  
 
Ensure sufficient details are provided on each  proposed activity, inclu ding a description, the target  audiences and the 
promotional tools that will be developed. Include a sched ule of their implementation and a justification as to why the proposed 
budget and student resources will be sufficient to sup port the outreach activities.  
 
2. FEASABILITY AND RISKS   
 
2.1 Project plan and schedule  
The information provided in this section a nd in the detailed implementation schedule  (see Section 1 0 of the application form) 
will be used to evaluate the clarit y and completeness of the proposal, and the feasibility of the proposed project . It will also be 
used to evaluate the likelihood that the  project will be completed on schedule.   
 
The project plan must include the following subsections  (see CUBICS AO Append ix B.1 ): 
A. CubeSat payload development plan  (Stream 1 and Stream 2) ;  
B. CubeSat bus development plan (Stream 2 only) ; 
C. Ground segment (Stream 2 only) ; 
D. CubeSat operating plan (Stream 2 only)   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 14 
SECTION 7 – PROPOSAL  (CONTINUED)  Factors such as the follow ing sh ould be considered in all proposals:  
• Availability of students and expert assistance;  
• Team experience in satellite design, developme nt, testing and operation;  
• The trade -offs between costs, schedule, level of effort and the expected training benefits;  
• Acces s to a laboratory for payload or satellite assembly, integration and testing (AIT); and  
• Access to or approval to build a ground seg ment for CubeSat operations  (Stream 2 only) . 
 
Ensure the following questions are addressed:  
• In light of the proposed pr oject plan included in the proposal, are the objectives realistic?  
• Is the project clearly described?  
• Is there a high  probability that th e work will be carried out on schedule and within budget?  
 
Please note:  
• Payloads developed under Stream 1 must achieve an eng ineering model (EM) level and be compatible with a CubeSat 
platform.  
• The third year of the projects developed under Stream 2 must be dedicated to the operation of the CubeSat (if it is 
launched into orbit), data collection and data analysis.  
• The fun ding p rovided through this AO for projects under Stream 2 will support an operation phase of a maximum of 
twelve (12) months.  
 
2.2 Projec t-related risks and mitigation strategies  
The information provided in this section will be used to evaluate the applica nt's a nalysis of the main risks associated with the 
project, as well as the mitigation strategies for each risk. The purpose of this anal ysis evaluation is to determine the feasibility of 
the team being able to complete the project within the proposed time  and b udget.   
 
The applicant must carry out an in -depth risk analysis (financial, managerial, environmental, scientific and technical ris ks). 
Detailed information must be provided on the availability of resources, risks associated with their non -availabili ty, and on 
mitiga tion strategies for these risks.  
 
The applicant must include a risk analysis table in this section if they have not com pleted Section 8 of the application form . The 
following elements must minimally be covered:  
• Access to a laboratory for payloa d or CubeSat  AIT;  
• Student turnover  
• Knowledge transfer;  
• Impact of inflation on the budget;  
• Component shortages;  
• If applicable, unc onfirmed sources of fundi ng and/or in -kind contributions;  
• Potential delays caused by the COVID -19 pandemic;  
• If applicab le, ac cess to or approval to build a ground segment for operations . 
 
Ensure the following questions are addressed:  
• Has the applicant iden tified and described in detail the risks associated with the project, including but not limited to, 
financial, manageri al, environmental, scientific and technical risks (particularly access to financial, human and physical 
resources) and compliance with th e project schedule?  
• Are the proposed mitigation strategies for each risk well thought out and realistic?  
• What is the pr obabil ity of the risks materializing?  
 
  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 15 
SECTION 7 – PROPOSAL (CONTINUED)  3. RESOURCES  
3.1 Project team  
The information provided in th is section, in the team members’ résumés (see Section 9 of the application form) and in the PI’s 
previous progress and final reports (if applicable) will be used to evaluate the quality and relevance of the project team (PIs, Co -
I(s), and confirmed student s if applicable), and the adequate allocation of these resources to each specific project task. The 
recruitment strateg y of t he student team members and  the level of involvement of a science faculty from the same or a different 
postsecondary institution in  the project  will also be assessed . The CSA highly recommends that PIs recruit student team members 
early enough to be able t o start projects immediately upon the signature of the grant agreement. In addition, collaboration 
between academic institutions is  highly encouraged.  
 
For Stream 2 only , this criterion also evaluates the skills of key team members, their combination  of ex pertise and their previous 
achievements related to the development of CubeSats as factors that will contribute to the likelihood th at their CubeSat 
successfully pass all progress and safety reviews to meet all launch requirements.  
 
Each proposed team  must as a minimum, consist of a PI and a team of postsecondary students  and a ll teams must include, among 
their team members, students f rom a science faculty from their institution or from an other postsecondary institution. Specifically:  
• Stream 1 teams m ust in clude at least five (5) Canadian students including a minimum of one (1) student from a science 
faculty, per semester for the durat ion of the project;  
• Stream 2 teams must include at least ten (10) Canadian students including a minimum of two (2) stu dents from one or 
more science faculties, per semester for the duration of the project.  
 
The proposal must include a description of the t eam composition, complete with the position to be held by all planned team 
members (e.g., PI, Co -I(s), Project Manager,  Team Leads, Team Co -leads, etc.), and their respective areas of responsibility.  Please 
refer to CUBICS AO Appendix B.3 for the suggested  technical disciplines for team members. The recruitment strategy of the 
student team members must also be included and  take into account student turnover.  
 
It is expected that the PI will be the lead in the project and have the following responsibilities:  
• Define the objective(s) of the mission and the mission architecture in order to achieve the mission objectives;  
• Assemb le and  supervise the student team;  
• Act as the primary Point of Contact (POC) for the CSA;  
• Inform the CSA without delay on any issue that may impact their project schedule;  
• Manage the payload or CubeSat as a project that respects the milestones and schedule ; 
• Prov ide reports to the CSA on the status of their projects including any issues or concerns that need particular attention;  
• Designate a  project manager for the execution of the project and the management of the project resources (Note: the PI 
shall remai n acco untable for the project outcome and sound management of the project funding);  
• Support postsecondary students’ development according  to the training plan;  
• Attend progress/safety review meetings with the CSA and launch provider technical authorities (i f appl icable), and report 
without delay any issue that impacts the schedule; and  
• If applicable, obtain the satellite operation licence pr ior to the delivery of the CubeSat to the launch provider.  
 
Ensure the following questions are addressed:  
• Has the proje ct tea m demonstrated its capacity to manage and carry out similar projects?  
• Are the duties and responsibilities assigned to each project team member consistent with each member's experience and 
expertise?  
• Does the project team involve members who present skills diversity (engineers, communication experts , and business -
savvy individuals )? 
• Does the project team have demonstrated experience re lated to the development of a CubeSat? (Stream 2 only)  
• Is the team composed of individuals from different academic inst itutio ns?  
• Does the strategy for the recruitment of the student team members specifically addresses student turnover?   
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 16 
SECTION 7 – PROP OSAL (CONTINUED)  Please note:  
• PIs should strive for a healthy work environment on the project, and are asked to consi der st udent workload issues when 
assigning tasks related to the project to their student team members.  
• PIs are permitted to invite other s individuals from the same or from different postsecondary institutions to assist them 
by being their Co -Is.  
• Inter - and int ra-province/territory collaboration is encouraged.  
• In evaluating the project team, the CSA reserves the right to take into conside ration how the PI managed CSA -funded 
projects in the past, based on previous project proposals and their results, and o n repo rting accuracy and reliability.  
 
3.2 Budget, funding, physical resources and infrastructure , support from industry and other stakeh olders  
The information provided in this section of the proposal and in Sections 11 and 12 of the application form  will be use d to evaluate 
whether the planned budget is adequate to achieve the project's objectives. The project's various sources of funding will also be 
taken into consideration. The timely availability of physical resources (e.g., equipment and/or instrument s) and  infrastructure 
(e.g., laboratory and/or ground station (for Stream 2))  will also be assessed . 
 
This section of the proposal must d escribe all expenses and sources of funds related to the project, including the CSA’s potential 
grant. As a minimum, an  estim ate for the following categories must be provided (see CUBICS AO Section 7.2 for eligible costs):  
• The procurement cost s of the payl oad components or CubeSat components (e.g., radio, battery, flight computer, 
switches, solar cells) ; 
• The procurement co sts of  the required equipment and laboratory for payload or satellite AIT (e.g., soldering station, 
power supply);  
• The manufacturing cost  of the CubeSat components, if any (e.g., solar panels, structures);  
• Travel and bursaries to support students’ particip ation in review meetings and workshops; and  
• The budget for consultant service s, if required.  
 
Ensure the following questions are addresse d: 
• Is the budget realistic and justified in relation to the proposed project?  
• Will the applicant make a financial contr ibutio n or a contribution in kind to the project other than the PI's salary?  
• Will other organizations participate in the project by makin g a financial contribution or a contribution in kind? Are the 
contributions described in the proposal and in Sections 1 1 and 12 of the application form clearly linked to the proposed 
project activities?  
• Will the physical resources planned for the project a nd the infrastructure be available in a timely manner?  
• Have details been provided regarding the access to the laborator y and/ or the ground -based infrastructure that will be 
used to develop the payload or CubeSat, and to operate the CubeSat if it is put int o orbit (Stream 2), including how the 
access will be granted and guaranteed?  
• If applicable: Has sufficient information been p rovided regarding how the proper licenses will be obtained in order to 
launch the CubeSat?  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 17 
SECTION 8  – RISKS AND MITIGA TION STRATEGIES  Please complete the following risk analysis table for the proposed project. The applicant may alternat ively leave this section 
blank and insert the risk analysis table into the project proposal  (see Section 7 of the application form).  Add an additional sheet 
if necessary.  Description of Risk  Probability 
(very likely, 
likely, possible, 
unlikely, highly 
unlikely)  Impact  
(trivial, 
minor, 
moderate, 
major, 
extreme)  Mitigation strategy  Access to a laboratory for payload or CubeSat AIT highly unlikely extreme The first RADSAT-SK team built a cleanroom which the RADSAT-SK2 team will gain possession of as the first project is wrapped up shortly. The RADSAT-SK2 team will have unlimited access to this cleanroom.  Student turnover  very likely  extreme  To increase member retention, students are 
incen tivize d to remain on the project through access to 
the potential for leadership experience, tutorials on 
various technical skills, networki ng with industry 
partners, opportunities to develop soft skills, and the 
potential for paid employment. The Outreach sub-
team hosts recruitment events throughout the year to 
bring in new members. To prepare for senior members 
leaving, such as Team Leads or  Project Managers, a co -
lead is selected and the current lead mentors them for 
a month or so until they leave the pro ject/s tep down.   
Our team has gained experience dealing with this issue 
on RADSAT -SK.  Knowledge transfer  possible  major  Documentation protocols  instituted during RADSAT -SK 
will remain  in place to help facilitate th e transfer o f 
know ledge and keep a record of decisions made and 
why. Those in leadership positions will also regularly 
enforce the use of this documentation. Also, all email 
communication is also sent to a team email address so 
that the team has access to the communic ation history 
with external sources so that after members and their 
personal emails are gone, these emails can still be 
looked back upon.  Impact of inflation on the budget  very likely  moderate  Inflat ion was facto red in to the budget along with a 
contingency. Also, a large portion of the expenses are 
to be made earlier on in the project, reducing the 
amount of time for inflation to take place.  Component shortages  very l ikely  moderate  Once design decisions are solidified, the design will be 
‘frozen’, and all components will be ordered at the 
same time so that the planned materials can all be 
acquired. Modularity and replaceability will be 
considered a s factors in our design  and pu rchasing 
decisions.     If applicable, unconfirmed sources of 
funding and/or in -kind contributions;  
 possible  minor  The RADSAT -SK2 project has already secured a number 
of partners/donors. More funding would a llow g reater 
freedom in the project , but if it cannot be procured,  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 18 
then the project is doable within the budget made for the funds already promised (plus the CSA grant). The Outreach team, Project Managers, PI’s and Co-PI’s will continue to reach out to secure additional donors and partners.  Potential delays caused by the COVID -
19 pandemic  possible  moderate  Similar to the component shortage mitigation strategy, 
all components will be ordered well in advance of 
testing a nd assembly once the design i n finalized.  If applicable, a ccess to or approval to 
build a ground segment for 
operations  highly unlikely  extreme  The RADSAT -SK2 project has already secured a 
partnership with the de partment of Physics in which 
the ground station used for the first RADSAT -SK project 
was promised for RADSAT -SK2 Not facilitating diligent accounting  highly u nlikely  major  RADSAT -SK2 has a Financial Project Manage r who will 
work closely with the PI to closely monitor the account 
and spendings. Monthly reconciliations will be done to 
ensure withdrawals match expenses and deposits 
match donations/grants .  This model was very 
effective on RADSAT -SK.    Static-electric discharge  very likely  major  RADS AT-SK2 will have unlimited access to an ISO 8 and 
ISO 9 cleanroom. Many team members are already 
trained for working in these environments and more 
will be trained as they jo in the  team. Flight hardware 
will only be handled in the ISO 9 cleanroom and prope r 
ESD protocols are strictly enforced. Grounding mats, 
straps, and aluminum standoffs are used. To increase 
the humidity levels within the cleanroom, a highly 
effective ultra sonic humidifier was built  during 
RADSAT -SK.  Breakdown of c ommunication with 
partn ers unlikely  major  Contact with partners/sponsors will be maintained 
through sending them regular donor reports and 
holiday greeti ngs. T imelines will be provided to well in 
advance so that the partner is aware of when their 
serv ices (ex. vibrations testing) will be required. 
Arrangements will be made in advance with the details 
of the how the service will be performed. More follow 
up will be done immediately prior to the event to 
make sure everyone is still on track for the timel ine.  Collision of CubeSat  with  debris/  
micrometeoroids  possible  moderate  Solar panels and other components that ca n with stand 
being hit with small amounts of space debris will be 
selected for the design. An appro priate power budget 
will be designed so that if damage were inflicted on a 
solar panel was damaged, its reduced function would 
not have a significant impact.  Inability to test or modify 
components in -house  likely  moderate  Strategic partnerships have been made for RADSAT -
SK2 that will allow the team access to facilities and 
equipment for testing and manuf acturi ng (ex. 
vibrations testing and other tools from Calian, and the 
manufacturing flight models  of boards at Galaxia 
Mission Systems). Contingency has also been built into 
the timeline so that there is time to send away  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 19 
components for modification/testin g if n ecessary.  Failure to receive scientific data from 
orbit  possi ble extreme  Thorough testing of communication systems will be 
performed before the satellite is launched into orbit. 
Multiple ‘mock missions’ wil l also  be performed to 
ensure that all systems are operating as expected.                                                                                                                                                                                            
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 20 
SECTION 9 – TEAM MEMBERS  Please provide below the name and other relevant information for each team member who will contribute to the students’ 
training, to the advancement of scientific knowledg e and/ or to the developm ent of technology. For each team member, 
attach the résumé . Attach an additional sheet if needed.  
Please note : 
• Other than certain PDFs , eligible students do not have to be listed  in this section ; 
• PDFs  should only be listed in this section if they will ass ume a mo re significant role in the project;  
• Co-Investigators are not  required to be affiliated with a Canadian university or post -secondary institution;  
• Non -faculty and non -student personnel (e.g. research associates, technicians, p roject managers, etc.) can be li sted as 
Co-Investigators, as long as the individual  is qualified to undertake research independently and  will contribute to the 
project’s overall direction;  
• An industry partner  can be considered as a member of the project te am if they contribute th eir expe rtise to the project 
and do not charge fees or expenses to the grant recipient for their participation ; 
• A CSA employee should not  be listed as Co -Investigator.  
 Team Member 1  (Principal investigator ) Full Name  Telephone  Brian Bersch eid 306-966-5134  Title  / Position  E-mail address  Associate Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering  brian.berscheid@usask.ca  Organiz ation  Role in the project  Universi ty of Saskatchewan  Project management and mentorship  Team Member 2 (C o-investigator or PDF) Full Name  Telephone  Sean Maw  306-966-3200  Title / Position  E-mail address  Associate Professor, Jerry G.  Huff Chair in Innovativ e Teachi ng Ron and Jane 
Graham School of Professional Development  sean.maw@usask.ca  Organization  Role in the project  University of Saskatchewan  Project management and mentorship  Team Mem ber 3 (Co -investigator o r PDF) Full Name  Telephone  Paul Laforge  306-585-5305 Title / Position  E-mail address  Associate Professor, Electronic Systems Engineering  paul.laforge@uregina.ca  Organizati on Role in the project  University of Regina  Project management and mentorship  Team Member 4 (Co -investigator or PDF) Full Name  Telephone              Title / Position  E-mail address              Orga nization  Role in the project                
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 21 
 SECTION 9 – TEAM MEMBERS (CONTINUED)  Team Member 5 (Co-investigator or PDF) Full Name Telephone             Title / Po sition  E-mail address              Organization  Role in the project              Team Member 6 (Co -investigator or PDF) Full Name  Telephone              Title / Positio n E-mail address              Organization  Role in the project               SECTION 10 – DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE  Please attach a detailed implementation schedule for the project. The CSA recommends presenting th e schedu le in both a Gantt 
Chart and a tabular format with the following column headings: identifi cation  number for each task from the Work Breakdown 
Structure (WBS)  (e.g. 1.1.2), task name, task duration, start date, completion dat e, task dependencies (pr edecesso r and 
successor task identifiers, relationship type, lead or lag durations ) and the names of the human resources assigned to the main 
task s.  
 
Maximum project duration : 
• Stream 1: Up to two  and a half  (2.5) years , including the development of the pa yload (u p to two (2) years) and the test 
campaign, if applicable ;  
• Stream 2: Up to three (3) years , including the development of the CubeSat  (up to two (2) years ), the use of the payload 
during an operation phase  if the CubeSat is l aunched into orbit , data  collect ion and analysis.  
   
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 22 
 SECTION 1 1 – DETAILED BUDGET  Please provide a detailed itemized budget, according to the following eligible CSA budget categories. Budget Category  Description  Amount Requested from the CSA  Total Am ount 
Requested 
from Othe r 
Source s Name of the 
Other Sources 
of Funding  (If 
applicable)  Total Project 
Budget (CSA + 
Other Funding 
Sources)  Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Total  Access Fees Use of the University of Saskatchewan Space Design Team's (USST) space, tools, and platforms, and use of the Department of Physics and Engineering Physics Ground Station $0 $0 $0 $0 $45 000 USST and University of Saskatchewan Department of Physics and Engineering Physics $45 000 Accommodation 
and meals 
allowances  Related costs from 
attending 
conferences, 
workshops, and 
design reviews  $7 650  $8 300  $0 $15 950  $5 700  University of 
Saskatchewan 
College of 
Engineering  $21, 650  Acquisition, 
development 
and printing of 
materials  3D printing 
materials  $500 $500 $0 $1 000 $500 University of 
Saskatchewan 
College of 
Engineering   $1 500  Acquisition or 
rental of 
equipment  - $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 - $0 Bursaries  - $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 - $0 Consultant 
services  Consultation in 
PCB (Printed 
Circuit Board) 
Design fro m 
Galaxi a Mission 
Systems  $0 $0 $0 $0 $47 500  Galaxia 
Mission 
Systems  $47 500  Costs for 
carrying out 
environmental 
screening 
and/or impact 
studies  - $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 - $0 Costs related to 
obtaining 
security 
clearance  - $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 - $0 Data acquisition  - $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 - $0  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 23 
Data 
management  Communication 
and data s torage 
platforms  $1 000  $1 000  $0 $2 000  $1 000  University of 
Saskatchewan 
College of 
Engineering   $3 000  Laboratory 
analysis servi ces - $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 - $0 License and permit fees Fees for ISED, HAM Radio, and other licences $1 000 $1 000 $0 $2 000 $1 000 University of Saskatchewan College of Engineering   $3 000 Marketing and 
printing services  Outreach, 
promotional, and 
sponsorship 
material  $4 000  $4 000  $0 $8 000 $4 000  University of 
Saskatchewan 
College of 
Engineering   $12 000 Material and 
supplies  
(including 
payload or 
satellite 
components and 
hardware)  Hardware, parts, 
and tools  $140 750 $90 750  0 $231 500 $39 250 University of 
Saskatchewan 
College of 
Engineering , 
University of 
Regina Faulty 
of Engineering 
and Applied 
Science , and 
USST       $269 750 SECTION 1 1 – DETAILED B UDGET (CONTINUED)  Budget Category  Description  Amount Requested from the CSA  Total Amount 
Requested 
from Other 
Sources  Name of the 
Other Sources 
of Funding (If 
applicable)  Total Project 
Budget (CSA + 
Other Funding 
Sources)  Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Total Participation 
fees at 
conferences, 
committees and 
events  Registration fees 
for conferences  $750  $0 $0 $750 $750  University of 
Saskatchewan 
College of 
Engineer ing $1 500  PST, HST and 
GST, and taxes 
for goods and 
services 
acquired in a 
foreign country  Integrated into 
projected material 
costs  $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 - $0 Publication and 
communication  
services  Costs for making 
publications  $1 000  $1 000  $0 $2 000 $1 000  University of 
Saskatchewa n 
Colle ge of 
Engineering  $3 000  Registration fees  - $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 - $0 Salaries and 
benefits paid to  
eligible students  
and 
postdocto ral 
fellows  Student salaries  $31 250  $31 250  $0 $62 500 $0 - $62 500  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 24 
Translation 
services  - $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 - $0 Travel  expenses  Travel expenses to 
and from 
conferences, 
workshops, design 
reviews, and for 
collaboration with 
the University of 
Regina  $12 100 $12 200  $0 $24 300 $7 800  University of 
Saskatchewan 
College of 
Engineering  $32 100       Total before 
overhead  - $200 0 00 $150 000 $0 $350 000  $152 500  - $502 500  Overhead  
(administrative ) 
costs - not to 
exceed 15% of 
total  eligible 
costs requested 
from CSA before 
overhead  - $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 - $0 TOTAL  Grand Total  $200 0 00 $150 000 $0 $350 000  $152 500  - $502 500     SECTION 1 2 – OTHER SOURCES OF FUNDING  Please identify any current and/or proposed funding sources using the information from  the detailed b udget.  
Note that for the purpose of the CUBICS 2022 AO, “other sources of funding” refers to resources that will be used specifically for 
the proposed project activitie s. These resources must be described in the project  proposal  (Section  7 of the applicati on form ). Source of Funding (Name of 
Funding Organiz ation and its 
Funding Program , if applicable ) Contact Person (Full 
Name, Title and 
Telephone Number)  Type of Funding 
(In-kind, Grants, 
etc.)  Funding 
Amount ($) 
Allocated 
Exclusively 
to Project  % of Total  
Project 
Budget  Confirmed 
Funding?  
(YES / N O) Canadian Space Agency        Grant  $350 000  69.65%  No University of Saskatchewan 
College of Engineering  Suzanne Kresta,  
Dean, University of 
Saskatchewan College 
of Engineering,  
306-966-5593  Grant  $30 000  5.97%  Yes University of Regina Faculty of 
Engineering and Applied 
Sciences  David deMontigny, 
Associate Dean 
Academic,  
306-337-2277  Grant  $20 000  3.98%  Yes  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 25 
University of Saskatchewan Space Design Team (USST) Colby Valmont,  Vice President of Finance, 306-980-6650 Grant In-kind $10 000 $15 000 4.98% Yes Galaxia Mission Systems  Arad Gharagozli,  
Chief Executive 
Officer,  
866-425-2942  In-kind  $47 500  9.45%  Yes University of Saskatchewan 
Department of Physics and 
Engineering Physics  Michael Bradley,   
University of 
Saskatchewan 
Department Head of 
Physics and 
Engineering Physics ,  
306-966-6399  
 In-kind  $30 000  5.97%  Yes  SECTION 1 3 – OTHER  Please provide other documents to support your proposal (e.g., letters of support from each co -investigator listed and letters of 
inten t from organizations providing other sources of funding or in -kind contributions).  
  
  
CSA Class Grant and Contribution Program to Support  
Research, Awareness and Learning in Space Science and Technology  
Application Form  
Version française disponible  The information collected on this form and appendices will be stored in the Personnel 
Information Bank of the CSA Grant & Contribution Program to support Research, Awareness 
and Learning in Space Science and Technology.  
PROTECTED WHEN COMPLETED  Version 2022  Page 26 
 SECTION 14 – DOCUMENTS TO SUBMIT (CHECKLIST)  APPLICATIONS SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY  (Refer to Section 4.1 of the AO)  
Combine the following documents into a single PDF -formatted file, in the same order as is presented below:  
 1.  A completed application form  signed  (with handwritten or digital signature)  by the duly authorized representative.  
 2.  A proposal  that complies with the guideli nes outlined in Section 7 of the application form  and that includes a detailed 
implementation schedule  for the project . 
 3.  The résumé of the PI and Co-I(s), if applicable.   
 4.  A letter of support from each Co-I (if app licable) confirming their intent to participate in the project and the nature of 
their participation . 
 5.  A letter of support  from industrial partner (s) (if applicable) confirming their intent to participate in the project and the 
nature of their participation . 
 6.  Letters from other funding contributors  confirming their contributions (if applicable).  
 7.  Declaration on Confidentiality, Access to Information Act  and Privacy Act  form signed by the duly a uthorized 
representative  (refer to the Applicant Declaration on Confidentiality, Access to Information Act  and Privacy Act  section 
included in the application form).  
 8.  For organizations in Quebec, M-30 Supporting Documentation  form  completed and signed by the duly authorized 
representative (refer to the M -30 form included in the application form)  
The application must be prepared as a single PDF -formatted file  containing all  of the above requested documents with all 
security features disabled. The proposal and supporting documents must be included in the file as searchable PDF -formatted 
documents (PDF/A -1a or PDF/A -2a formats preferred).  
Submit an account creation request usi ng the Electronic Proposal Portal . 
Using the temporary password assigned by the CSA, login to the secured portal to upload protected documents.  
The applicant must keep one hard copy of all the original documents  above. The CSA may require applicants who 
successfully passed the evaluation stage described in Section 5 of the AO to send a ha rd copy of their complete application 
with the original documents.  
If the applicant is unable to submit their application electronically, please communicate with stim -stem@asc -csa.gc.ca  no 
later than November 9, 2022 at 1:00 p.m. (ET)  to obtain instructions on how to submit a paper application by mail or using a 
recognized courier service.    Section 2 of RADSAT-SK2 Application Package Proposal Document                    1              RADSAT-SK2 3U Cube Satellite Project Proposal A response to the Canadian Space Agency’s CUBICS Announcement of Opportunity         Grant Requested By: University of Saskatchewan College of Engineering   Dr. Brian Berscheid, Principal Investigator Associate Professor and Barbhold Chair in Information Technology Room 3B39, Engineering Building 57 Campus Drive, University of Saskatchewan 306-966-5134 brian.berscheid@usask.ca 2 RADSAT-SK2 CubeSat Project              Submission By: Arliss Sidloski, Layne Ransom, Sean Maw, Brian Berscheid, Paul Laforge  Contributors: Dr. Brian Berscheid, Dr. Li Chen, Dr. Kate Dadachova, Christopher Elash, Rosy Hettiarachchi, Atharva Kulkarni, Alexandra Hynes, Dr. Sean Maw, Rylee Moody, Dr. Paul Laforge, Rhys Rybchuk, Dustin Preece, Layne Ransom, Makayla Robinson, Arliss Sidloski, Colby Valmont, Lian Wood.   
3 Executive Summary  This document provides a detailed proposal from the University of Saskatchewan and University of Regina to design a 3U cube satellite under the CUBICS program.  Our satellite, known as RADSAT-SK2, aims to build upon the lessons, experiences, and results from the RADSAT-SK satellite undertaken through the Canadian CubeSat Project.  Above all, the key focus of RADSAT-SK2 is to train the next generation of scientists and engineers.  Our vision is for undergraduate students to take the lead on all technical and project management aspects of RADSAT-SK2, thereby empowering them to develop the knowledge, experience, and skills necessary to succeed in their future careers.  My role as PI and that of the Co-PIs, Sean Maw and Paul Laforge, will be to support and mentor the students through this journey.  This HQP training model has proven hugely successful through the RADSAT-SK project, with numerous USST alumni going on to work at space industry leaders such as MDA and Calian Advanced Technologies.  RADSAT-SK2 will include several exciting scientific payloads.  As its name implies, one key area of focus for the project relates to radiation detection and shielding in space.  In particular, our system will use novel MOSFET-based radiation detectors in conjunction with various types of synthetic melanin to evaluate approaches to protecting astronauts and equipment from space radiation.  RADSAT-SK2 will also conduct experiments on a new radiation-hardened RISC-V processor developed at the University of Saskatchewan.  Furthermore, RADSAT-SK will include an extendable boom designed at the University of Regina, which will be used for attitude control enhancement.  Finally, an on-board camera will be used to take pictures of Earth for outreach purposes.  These pictures will also be processed to analyze cloud cover, supporting further understanding of the causes and effects of climate change.  A particularly exciting aspect of the RADSAT-SK2 project is its potential to bring together organizations and institutions from across Saskatchewan and beyond.  Whereas the original RADSAT-SK project was conducted entirely in Saskatoon, RADSAT-SK2 brings the University of Regina into the team, making it a truly provincial effort.  By giving students and faculty from across the province the opportunity to participate in a real space mission, we can expand the reach of the CUBICS program and further the CSA’s mandate.  A “Team Saskatchewan” mission will also produce substantially greater outreach possibilities for the project, allowing us to connect with the youth of our province and inspire them to reach for the stars.   This vision has already captured the attention of numerous industry partners, and we are excited to see what these collaborations will lead to in the future.  In summary, on behalf of the Co-PIs and the entire RADSAT-SK and RADSAT-SK2 teams, I would like to request the support of the CSA for the enclosed proposal.  This project has the 4 potential to provide life-changing opportunities for our students, while generating excitement about space science and technology in general.  With your support, I am confident that the RADSAT-SK2 project will be of great benefit to all involved.  Sincerely,  Brian Berscheid, RADSAT-SK2 Principal Investigator  
5 Table of Contents Introduction ..................................................................................................................................... 6 1.0 Benefits for Canada and Outcomes...................................................................................... 7 1.1 Proposed Project ................................................................................................................... 7 1.2 Training Plan ......................................................................................................................... 9 1.3 Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) ................................................................................ 17 1.4 Public Engagement Plan ..................................................................................................... 17 2.0 Feasibility and Risks ............................................................................................................... 20 2.1 Project Plan and Schedule ................................................................................................... 20 2.2 Project Related Risks and Mitigation Strategies ................................................................. 22 3.0 Resources ................................................................................................................................ 30 3.1 Project Team ....................................................................................................................... 30 3.2 Budget, Funding, Physical Resources and Infrastructure, Support from industry and other Stakeholders .............................................................................................................................. 34    6 Introduction Students and faculty at the Universities of Saskatchewan and Regina are proposing a space research project called RADSAT-SK2. It is a 3U cube satellite mission to be designed, tested, and built by students at the University of Saskatchewan and the University of Regina. Collaboration with Saskatchewan Polytechnic is also anticipated, with the details to be decided at a later date. Faculty members at these Saskatchewan institutions will serve as the Primary Investigators, and researchers at the University of Saskatchewan and the University of Regina will supply the radiation-related and passive attitude control research payloads, respectively. The University of Regina has a Software Systems Engineering (SSE) program that specializes in analyzing, designing, and developing software for various types of computers and microprocessors. Students and faculty within the U of R SSE program will aid in the development and debugging of software for CubeSat. The team will also work closely with industry partners such as Galaxia Mission Systems, Calian Advanced Technologies, Magnestar Inc, and RMD Engineering for design consultations, use of testing facilities and equipment, and mentorship.  The project will occur over a duration of three years, starting in March 2023 and ending in March of 2026. This timeline includes an operational phase of approximately one year in which data collection and analysis will occur while the spacecraft is in orbit.  If launch is procured, the CubeSat will enter a nominal orbit at a 400-500 km altitude and sun-synchronous inclination.  The RADSAT-SK2 mission has multiple objectives with varying complexity, which are broken down as follows:  1. Design and build an on-board computer (OBC) including a radiation-hardened central processing unit (CPU) 2. Use data processed on an OBC with space heritage to evaluate a new radiation-hardened RISC processor 3. Determine the effectiveness of radiation detecting MOSFETs in polar orbits 4. Determine the effectiveness of melanin for radiation shielding in polar orbits 5. Use a deployable boom or weighted tether to serve as a passive attitude control enhancement 6. Collect cloud coverage data to support further understanding of the causes and effects of climate change 7. Provide an opportunity for students to gain skills and knowledge that will enable their entry into the aerospace industry 8. Capture images of Earth from space for public education purposes  One of the primary objectives of the project is the provision of a valuable educational experience to students.  RADSAT-SK2 will place a large emphasis on providing post-secondary students 7 with an opportunity to meaningfully contribute to a real space mission. Students will gain technical skills and hands-on experience that cannot be taught within a regular classroom, allowing students to expand their knowledge and skills in a unique way. Students will also further develop soft skills including their leadership qualities, teamwork and collaboration abilities, communication skills, and work ethic. Members of the project will become more well-rounded individuals before entering industry.  A successful mission will involve a great deal of data collection and analysis while the CubeSat is in orbit. Data processed on a commercial off the shelf (COTS) On Board Computer (OBC) with flight heritage will be compared to that of on OBC built in-house. The results will evaluate the performance of newly developed radiation-hardened hardware, including a CPU and RISC processor. Radiation dosimeter data will be collected and analyzed for the purpose of determining the effectiveness of MOSFETs at detecting radiation as well as for the purpose of determining the feasibility of using melanin for radiation shielding, both in polar orbits. Various images will be downlinked, including pictures of the Earth from space that include cloud coverage. Cloud coverage photos will be analyzed to aid in the understanding of climate change. Attitude control parameters will be monitored in conjunction with the use of a deployable boom or weighted tether to assess how well this technology can aid in attitude control for CubeSats.  The RADSAT-SK2 space research project will greatly benefit the students involved through the development of skills and knowledge, while contributing meaningful space-based experimental results to help maintain Canada’s position in space research on the world stage.  1.0 Benefits for Canada and Outcomes  1.1 Proposed Project Study of Radiation Tolerant Microcontrollers One of the payloads of RADSAT-SK2 will be a radiation-hardened microcontroller which has been developed and tested by a team of researchers at the University of Saskatchewan, led by Dr. Li Chen. The implementation of this innovative radiation tolerant microcontroller on the RADSAT-SK2 CubeSat will serve as a practical application and demonstration of this technology. To properly incorporate the microcontroller, the RADSAT-SK team will work with the researchers to design and build an on-board computer (OBC) from which the microcontroller would operate. This will work in parallel to a commercial off the shelf (COS) OBC with flight heritage. Both will be monitored for unexpected reboots and other anomalies throughout the operation phase in orbit, then analyzed and compared to determine the reliability and utility of the newly developed radiation-hardened microcontroller.   A commercially affordable radiation-hardened microcontroller would be a useful advancement in space technology while also having a positive impact on technology used on Earth. One issue 8 that current technology has in locations with high-radiation is bit flips – the radiation particles cause the 1’s and 0’s in programming to ‘flip’ to 0’s and 1’s, resulting in incorrect commands and stored data. Using a radiation-hardened microcontroller would help mitigate this risk.  Study of Radiation Detecting and Shielding Technology The original RADSAT-SK CubeSat project, funded through the Canadian CubeSat Project (CCP), houses two dosimeter boards to be flown for the purpose of testing newly developed radiation detection and shielding technology. These experimental dosimeter boards utilize MOSFETs (Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors) to detect radiation levels, which cost significantly less than current radiation detection options. The MOSFET dosimeter boards are also coated in synthetic melanin to test the feasibility of melanin as a radiation shielding method in space. Both the MOSFET radiation detecting technology and melanin shielding research will be conducted within the International Space Station (ISS) orbit.  RADSAT-SK2 will further the radiation-based research conducted through the previous satellite by means of data collection and analysis within a different orbit. The RADSAT-SK2 CubeSat will be launched into a high inclination polar orbit, meaning the combination of data collected from two varying orbits will provide a more complete understanding of the effects and applications of the proposed technologies for use in space. The research associated with melanin as a radiation shielding method will be expanded upon in this second iteration CubeSat by considering different types of bulk melanin. Shielding materials will also be hardened with melanin nanoparticles to determine whether such a configuration provides more effective shielding of radiation than bulk melanin.   Passive Attitude Control Enhancement The University of Regina is currently envisioning a deployable boom or weighted tether from their cube as their payload contribution. This would nominally serve as a passive attitude control enhancement mechanism. If this deployable boom/tether was extended to varying distances (deployment settings), measurements of the stability of the CubeSat could be made at these different settings to assess the degree of stabilization offered by the varying extents of deployment. This could be a very modular payload such that if efficacy was demonstrated, it could provide the CubeSat industry with an easily attachable modular passive attitude control system.  Cloud Coverage Analysis A medium-resolution camera is planned to be flown on RADSAT-SK2. One of the purposes of the camera is to examine cloud coverage to aid in developing a better understanding of the causes and effects of climate change. Post processing of imagery will be used to examine the extent and density of clouds over different regions. The camera will also be used to take pictures of Earth from space to inspire others to enter STEM and space-related disciplines. These images 9 will be shared with the public as part of an advocacy campaign to generate more interest in space exploration, Earth observation, and climate science.  1.2 Training Plan Composition and Roles The RADSAT-SK2 team is comprised of the PI, Dr. Brian Berscheid (University of Saskatchewan) and the Co-PI’s, Dr. Sean Maw (University of Saskatchewan) and Dr. Paul Laforge (University of Regina). There are also a number of students at both the University of Saskatchewan and the University of Regina that will collaborate in order to deliver a fully functional CubeSat. The RADSAT-SK2 team anticipates additional team members from Saskatchewan Polytechnic, though due to staffing changes, their commitment could not be finalized at the time of writing this application. There will be additional collaboration with researchers at the University of Saskatchewan who have developed the radiation-based experiments. Partnerships have already been established with a number of industry players, including RMD Engineering, Calian Advanced Technologies, Galaxia Mission Systems, and Magnestar Inc, in order to help facilitate the various processes required to design, manufacture, test, assemble, and operate a fully functioning CubeSat.  The PI and Co-PI’s will stay up to date on the status of the various design, manufacturing, testing, assembly, and operations phases of the project. They will provide insight to help avoid problems as well as advise when challenges are encountered, to help resolve them. Similar to the original RADSAT-SK project, the students will lead the team in making design decisions and solving problems while the PI and Co-PI’s will provide mentorship to help facilitate these processes. The PI and Co-PI’s will advise and work with the three project managers (PMs); there will be a Technical PM, Financial PM, and HR & Communications PM. These PM’s will oversee the team leads of the various sub-teams, each of which consists of a number of members in addition to the Team Lead. More about these positions is discussed in Section 3.1 Project Team.  Shadowing and Mentorship Plan The RADSAT-SK team has learned a lot about project management during the current CubeSat project. Many of the members from this current team intend to be involved in RADSAT-SK2 so these senior members will continue to pass on their knowledge to junior members following the successful mentorship and shadowing plan implemented for the first RADSAT-SK project.  To ensure continuity of the RADSAT-SK2 project through to its conclusion, the team has a mentorship strategy for all leadership roles. At the beginning of the project, leadership roles are expected to be held by senior RADSAT-SK members due to their level of experience and demonstrated dedication to long-term projects. As these senior members may graduate and move away from the university before the project is concluded, there is a high risk of potential loss of 10 knowledge, experience, and guidance.  In order to counter this, each leadership role will be shadowed by one or two junior members who have demonstrated aptitude and significant commitment to the project. These junior members will be involved in every aspect of the leadership role to ensure that any knowledge possessed by the senior member is passed along. Senior members will have the opportunity to develop and practice their own mentorship skills by ensuring that, should they leave the project before completion, the apprentice may take over with minimal disruption.  Various Skills Trained Project Management Project management requires a wide variety of technical, leadership, and communication skills, and is best taught through real-world experience. Some of the skills which students will develop in this area include resource management and budgeting, scheduling and project planning, how to run effective meetings, risk analysis and mitigation, and general leadership skills. All students will be exposed to various aspects of project management throughout the project.  The amount will depend on their role. All students will take part in risk mitigation strategies, planning, and will learn how to use available resources effectively. In addition, students in management and leadership roles will gain skills in scheduling, long-term planning, and mentorship. By the end of this project, all students will have gained significant project management skills.  Design and Implementation of Science Investigations For the radiation-based experiments, researchers at the University of Saskatchewan will oversee the design and manufacturing of the dosimeter boards and microcontroller. The researchers will then work with the students on the RADSATSK-2 team to integrate the dosimeter boards into the CubeSat stack and connect it to the bus. Implementation of the radiation-hardened microcontroller will be a combined effort between the researchers and students. The students will take the lead on the design of the On-board Computer (OBC) Printed Circuit Board (PCB).  For the deployable boom/tether in the 3rd cube, students at the University of Regina will take the lead on the design, manufacturing, and testing of the payload. The University of Regina members of RADSAT-SK2 will work closely with the University of Saskatchewan team members to create a final product that will properly integrate into the rest of the CubeSat stack.  Requirement Verification and Validation Requirement verification and validation are two separate procedures for ensuring that a design fulfills its desired purpose. Students will gain skills in detailed project definition based on the requirements and goals of each subsystem. They will also learn testing and analysis methods to ensure each subsystem meets the desired specifications and will learn about interpreting and using external feedback to improve a design. These skills may also be applied to outreach, financial, and management roles, and as a result all students will gain skills in this area. 11  Preparation for Design Reviews In preparing for design reviews (internal and external), students will learn how to clearly present ideas and designs. This will also include proper project/problem definition and justification for every decision. Students who have been involved in design reviews before will increase their skills as they will be taking more senior management roles in RADSAT-SK2. Students who have not participated in a prior design review will be mentored by more experienced members and will gain the required skills. It is expected that at least 3-5 students will attend each design review, with the participants including both senior and junior members.  Mechanical and Electrical Engineering Systems  A large part of this project involves technical design. Students involved with design teams will gain significant technical skills in areas covered by the team. Students involved in the project will be directed towards technical activities related to their field of study, allowing them to gain experience related to their schooling and career goals. While some senior students will have prior experience in technical design of this type, the challenges posed by RADSAT-SK2 will be greater than those encountered in the first RADSAT-SK project, and thus students will gain significant technical skills.  The project will involve mechanical and electrical design. Many members will work in more than one of these areas as there is significant overlap between subsystems. Additionally, in the later stages of the project, students may shift their time between subsystems based on how much work remains to be done in each area.  Payload and Satellite Assembly, Integration, and Testing Throughout the RADSAT-SK2 project, team members will be involved in the simulation and/or prototyping of specific subsystems. Full, comprehensive testing procedures will be taught to each member based on their area of focus. Additionally, industry professionals (e.g. from Calian Advanced Technologies and Galaxia Mission Systems) will provide advice about testing procedures used in industry. By the end of the project, all students will have gained hands-on experience with prototyping, prototype construction and testing. The final satellite will be assembled in the cleanroom at the University of Saskatchewan that was built for the previous RADSAT-SK project, giving students experience working in these types of environments.  Satellite Environmental Testing and Operation Throughout the project, students will learn about different design constraints dictated by the environment the satellite will be operating in throughout different stages of the mission. These environmental factors may include vibration, mechanical stress, thermal stress, and radiation. Students will also gain significant knowledge about the atmosphere, specifically at and below the 12 orbital altitude. Finally, they will learn about the effects of the environment and environmental changes on the orbital profile of the satellite.  Students will learn about environmental testing (such as how it is done) and students will have the opportunity to use various mechanical, thermal and vacuum testing facilities. These include a shaker table and a space-environment simulation chamber found at the University of Saskatchewan.  Software Development Many different areas of the project will provide opportunities for learning about software development. Students will be exposed to designing software for control systems, power regulation, data collection and processing, and communications. Students will gain strong skills in software development and interfacing with hardware systems, as well as knowledge about automation and control systems. Software languages that students will become proficient in will include C/C++, MATLAB, and Python. This project will also provide students within the Software Systems Engineering program at the University of Regina the opportunity to further their knowledge gained in the classroom through application on a real software development project.  Data Collection and Analysis Throughout the course of the satellite’s operation, data will be collected during periods of contact between the satellite and the ground. Students will develop automated systems to process the incoming data. They will then gain the skills necessary to analyze and interpret the processed data. In doing this, they will gain skills in software development, user interface design, the use of existing software tools, and in thinking critically about what the data is saying.  Interpersonal Communication and Leadership As with any team project, students will learn about working with a group in a team environment. Students will gain knowledge related to working within a team, distributing work effectively, using each person’s individual skills, and reviewing each other’s work. All of these skills will contribute to the ability to communicate effectively with peers. In addition, students in leadership and management roles will gain hands-on leadership experience, including motivating and guiding other team members and dealing with personal and interpersonal issues that arise.  Students will be in communication with professors, industry professionals, and peers from other universities, and will thus gain skills related to professional communication and public speaking. They will also gain these skills through the University of Saskatchewan’s Ron and Jane Graham School of Professional Development, a School within Engineering that specializes in teaching engineering students professional communication skills, both written and verbal.  13 Problem Solving This entire project revolves around solving specific problems which may not have been directly solved before by team members. Students will gain skills related to researching current methods to solve a problem and comparing various solutions. They will determine how current solutions may be applied or may be adapted to the problem at hand. In addition, students will be required to create new solutions in some cases, developing significant critical thinking and analysis skills.  Public Outreach One of the primary objectives of the RADSAT-SK2 project is public engagement and outreach. The team recognizes the importance of promoting space and STEM to the general public, especially children. Through various presentations and community activities, students will develop the necessary skills to convey technical information to others in a way that is meaningful and fun, and that can be understood.  Current Team Skills Experience - Circuit testing and design  - Software development in a variety of languages - Mathematical modelling and development of numeric solutions to physics problems - Materials sciences and effects of radiation on materials  - FPGA and microcontroller programming  - KiCad and other circuit CAD programs - Composite design and construction  - Electrical grid design and power management  - Power distribution board design - Sensor design and sensor data acquisition and processing - Clean room experience  - Commercial restricted UAV operation  - Long-term project work, analysis, and preparation of design reviews for CSA and NRC - Additive manufacturing for prototype and end-use parts - Proficiency in SolidWorks - Leadership and mentorship, both in project management and teaching roles  Skills Expected to be Learned - Long-term project management and planning  - Iterative software management, development, and implementation - Increased understanding of the space environment and designing equipment for operation in harsh conditions - Hands-on design experience  - Improved programming and CAD skills 14 - Experience in RF communications and DSP skills - Experience in board design and construction  - Ground station design and operation  - Radio band licensing procedures  - Design and implementation of advanced electrical systems  - Increased mathematics and modelling skills - Advanced structural analysis using finite element analysis - Advanced material science knowledge and fabrication skills - Application of thermodynamics and heat transfer skills - Environmental analysis and design  - Improved prototype development and construction skills - Design and execution of verification and validation tests  Project Teams Skill Breakdown Over the course of this project, all students will gain general skills in time management, teamwork, and document writing. Students in leadership roles will gain significant leadership and project management skills. Additionally, each role will provide a variety of technical learning opportunities.  Student Project Managers The student project managers will gain a variety of skills related to leadership and team management. They will learn directly from the PI and Co-PIs while also applying the skills they gain throughout the project. These skills include: - Project timeline management - Coordinating teams and team leads - Organizing and running meetings - Interacting with industry professionals - Managing crises  Systems The systems team will have the opportunity to learn about systems engineering and high-level design. In addition, they will be required to gain some level of knowledge about each of the subsystems to ensure a proper understanding about how everything will work together. They will gain some of the basic skills developed by each specific subsystem team.  Outreach The outreach team will be an excellent opportunity for students interested in marketing, teaching, and education, who want to help inform and inspire youth. This team will gain skills in marketing and advertising through a variety of platforms, as well as in public/media relations and communication. This team will also produce posters and any other relevant artwork throughout 15 the project for promotional purposes. In terms of STEM education, students will have the opportunity to learn and practice instruction skills with students of all ages.  Financial The financial team will gain real-world experience in accounting, fundraising, and budgeting. This experience is invaluable for students interested in any type of business- or project management-related field. This will include learning about marketing and obtaining sponsorships from other organizations, which involves the practice of effective communication skills.  Power & Electrical The power and electrical team is expected to be composed of Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Software Engineering, and Engineering Physics students. They will be exposed to all aspects involved in designing a full power and electrical system. Some of the skills which will be learned by members of this team include: - Circuit design - Soldering  - Electrical CAD tools - Electrical systems testing and analysis - Circuit optimization - Increased knowledge in the science behind solar panels - Designing for redundancy - Testing and debugging  Mechanical The Mechanical team is expected to consist of Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Engineering Physics students, and will be one of the largest teams. This team will be exposed to the mechanical side of designing structures, control systems, and protection systems. This will include mechanical and basic electrical work. Some of the skills which will be learned by members of this team include: - Aerodynamics - CAD design and testing - Simulation-based stress analysis  - Advanced manufacturing methods - 3D printing and thermal cycling in materials - Circuit integration - Structural Assembly - Designing for redundancy and reliability   Software and Command 16 The Software team is expected to be composed of Computer Engineering, Software Engineering, Computer Science, and Engineering Physics students. They will learn all aspects of software design and integration. Some of the skills which will be learned by members of this team include: - Assembly level computer science and software development - Data processing - Developing automated systems - Predictive control - Reactive control - Redundancy design and risk mitigation - Testing and debugging  Communications & Data Handling The Communications and Data Handling team is expected to be composed of Engineering Physics, Computer Science, Software Engineering, and Computer Engineering students. This team will learn about radio-frequency communications, and data handling and processing. This will include both hardware and software development. Some of the skills which will be learned by members of this team include: - Radio-frequency communication - Software and hardware development - Data processing and handling - Designing backup systems and designing for redundancy - Testing and debugging  Payload and Science The Payload and Science team is expected to be composed of Engineering Physics, Mechanical Engineering, Chemistry, and Physics students. Some of the skills which will be learned by members of this team include: - Materials science - Sensor design - Experimental design - Data analysis - Mathematical modelling - Software tools for simulation  Attitude Determination and Control Systems (ADCS) The ADCS team is expected to be composed of Engineering Physics, Physics, Software Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering students. The focus of this team is on modelling the flight parameters of the satellite, such as orbital mechanics, and in determining the methods with 17 which the satellite will maintain or adjust its attitude. Some of the skills/knowledge expected to be learned by this team include: - Aerodynamics  - Orbital mechanics - Attitude mechanics - Detailed mathematical modelling - Software tools for simulation and numerical analysis  1.3 Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Diversity, inclusivity, and equity are important aspects of all research projects, as successful research involves a wide range of individuals with varying backgrounds, experiences, and viewpoints. The RADSAT-SK2 research project will meaningfully engage underrepresented groups through outreach, the team environment, leadership philosophies, and recruitment.  The University of Saskatchewan’s current cube satellite project, RADSAT-SK, emphasizes the importance of outreach activities and community involvement. As a result, relationships have been formed with non-profit organizations such as the Saskatchewan Science Centre and the U of S SCI-FI Science Camps. SCI-FI Science Camps organizes activities targeted towards Saskatoon and surrounding area Indigenous communities and has designated programs for girls and allies interested in STEM, many of which RADSAT-SK has participated in. Moving forward, RADSAT-SK2 intends to continue working with local organizations to deliver programs and presentations to underrepresented groups, for the purpose of encouraging the pursuit of STEM and aerospace-related studies.  The RADSAT-SK2 team will foster a welcoming environment for all, as everyone interested in the project will be encouraged to join. Each new member will receive the same training from a mentor that values and emphasizes inclusivity. This will prepare everyone with the necessary knowledge to contribute to the research project in a meaningful way and provide equal opportunities for advancement into leadership positions. The RADSAT-SK2 management group will have a zero-tolerance policy for any behaviour that does not align with an inclusive and diverse team vision. As part of the management group, there will be a designated human resources person (the HR PM) that all team members should feel comfortable disclosing any unfavourable experiences to, further mitigating such behaviour and enforcing a positive team environment.  1.4 Public Engagement Plan One of the main objectives of the RADSAT-SK2 project is to inspire interest in space science and technology through engaging people in the motivation, design, and process of creating this particular satellite. In addition to material available to the public, such as news articles and radio interviews, specific groups will be targeted for lectures and demonstrations. An emphasis will be 18 placed on student outreach. RADSAT-SK2 will have a wide range of impact, reaching out to university, high school, and elementary school students, as well as to the general public. University Student Outreach A significant effort will be made to share the excitement of the RADSAT-SK2 project with the wider University of Saskatchewan campus community, beyond the engineering, physics, and computer science departments. Public seminars will be prepared throughout the design process of the satellite to share in the details of its design and purpose, and to provide a narrative about the entire undertaking. To promote these seminars, quick presentations will be organized for various classes around our campuses. This type of outreach will be an important part of the public engagement plan for the duration of the RADSAT-SK2 project, including after the completion of the mission. The Sheaf will be an important channel for outreach at the University of Saskatchewan. The student-run paper reaches a wide audience and has been the main source of student on-campus news and entertainment since 1912. The previous satellite project has been highlighted within the newspaper in the past, and the RADSAT-SK2 project will likely be featured several times throughout the duration of the project. The Sheaf would also be ideal for promoting the previously mentioned RADSAT-SK2 seminars. In addition to this public source of information, the project will be shared through the more academically inclined University of Saskatchewan Undergraduate Research Journal (USURJ). The faculty-reviewed journal hosts students’ original work and will be a perfect resource for sharing more technical details of the purpose, constraints, and design of the RADSAT-SK2 project. Articles accepted for the journal are published online, allowing for an even wider influence. Students and faculty will be encouraged to publish academic papers and abstracts to contribute to the academic community. Similar efforts will be undertaken at the University of Regina to ensure that their students are also engaged in the project and are active participants in the project’s development and success. We intend to work with their student union to spread the word about RADSAT-SK2. It is important that the major post-secondary institutions within Saskatchewan are collaborating on this project in order to reach a province-wide audience.. High School Student Outreach Drawing from the ideas presented above for public seminars at the University of Saskatchewan, material will be prepared for presenting at local high schools and engaging students in space science and technology, with the aim of encouraging those interested to pursue STEM fields. Since many members of the RADSAT-SK2 team are graduates of high schools in Saskatoon and the surrounding area, it would not be difficult to set up presentations in physics, computer science, and math classes to get the students excited about space missions and show them that it is possible to be involved in these types of opportunities in Saskatchewan. The current RADSAT-SK project 19 team has given numerous outreach presentations to Saskatoon classrooms, many of which reoccur each school year. A similar effort will be made with local high schools in Regina to reach even more Saskatchewan youth. An emphasis will be placed on visiting as many rural and reserve high schools as possible. A selection of presentations about different stages of the RADSAT-SK2 mission will be carefully prepared in advance, so that they may be presented at short notice. It will be a major goal of these presentations to have a gender-balanced panel of speakers including visible minorities, in order to provide female and minority high school students who are interested in pursuing STEM fields with strong role models, as well as to provide concrete evidence that the space industry is a place for everyone. Another focus of the presentations will be on student participation, achieved through asking thought-provoking questions that encourage audience members to think about the many different aspects involved in solving the types of problems encountered with a mission like RADSAT-SK2. Other presentations will involve hands-on design activities, which have been implemented with the current RADSAT-SK project. Extra opportunities to learn about the RADSAT-SK2 project for high school students who are especially interested will be provided through one or more teaching workshops hosted at the University of Saskatchewan Space Design Team (USST) team room. These workshops will allow the students to see where the work on the project is done, and to get a brief introduction to some of the design methods used. The University of Saskatchewan Open House, held every September for prospective students, will also be used as a platform for outreach to students considering the pursuit of a STEM degree. Elementary School Student Outreach Important resources that will be available for outreach to elementary school aged students are the SCI-FI Science Camps hosted by the University of Saskatchewan College of Engineering and the Educating Youth in Engineering and Science (EYES) camps hosted by the University of Regina Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science. For example, the SCI-FI Science Camps are run for eight weeks every summer and are offered for students from grades 1-9. There are numerous program options available, such as science, technology, computer science, and medical science, all sharing a common goal of sparking students’ interest in STEM fields. The RADSAT-SK2 project will already have close ties to SCI-FI as the RADSAT-SK team has organized and hosted numerous programs though the organization, such as “Girls Discover STEM”. The goal of these presentations will mirror those of the high school student outreach plan, but with simplified content. Since the SCI-FI camps run every year, the presentations will have the opportunity to evolve with the progress of the satellite. RADSAT-SK has collaborated with the Saskatchewan Science Centre in the past and intends to maintain this relationship for public outreach and community involvement. With the University of Regina contributing to RADSAT-SK2, this relationship will be strengthened as the Saskatchewan 20 Science Centre is located in Regina, allowing for easier cooperation. One example of a possible program that RADSAT-SK2 could contribute to is the Saskatchewan Science Centre’s girls coding club. The team would be involved in creating workshops and presentations about basic software and circuitry intended for young girls interested in engineering and computer science. Another great organization for elementary collaboration will be the Nutrien WonderHub, Saskatchewan's Children’s Museum located in Saskatoon. Working with the WonderHub would allow the RADSAT-SK team to reach more Saskatoon community members, similar to that of Regina residents with the Saskatchewan Science Centre.  Not every elementary school student has the opportunity to attend summer camps such as SCI-FI, however, so these presentations would also be taken to local and nearby rural and reserve elementary schools.  This, as well as the high school students targeted outreach, will be partially facilitated by the University of Saskatchewan Speaker’s Bureau. The RADSAT-SK2 presentations will fit perfectly with the grade six Saskatoon Public Schools’ curriculum, which has a space-themed unit incorporated. Many teachers have scheduled presentations through the Speaker’s Bureau during their space unit, and it is anticipated to see this continue.  Public Outreach This project aims to inspire not only students, but the general public, to be engaged in and excited about space science. In addition to the student outreach plans outlined above, several steps will be taken to impact members of the general public. The RADSAT-SK2 will have a strong social media presence, with Instagram and Facebook accounts and a website highlighting the progress of the project. The RADSAT-SK project generated enough interest to be featured in multiple local and national news outlets, and the CUBICS funded RADSAT-SK2 project is anticipated to do the same. In the past, University of Saskatchewan Space Design Team projects and RADSAT-SK CubeSat have been featured in the Saskatoon StarPhoenix newspaper, CBC News Saskatoon, the Daily Planet, CTV Morning Live, and the local community radio station CFCR 90.5FM. Ideally, this type of exposure to the project will lead people toward the social media pages, where they can follow the progress of the RADSAT-SK2 project. 2.0 Feasibility and Risks  2.1 Project Plan and Schedule Gantt Chart The project schedule is in the form of a Gantt chart. As there is no official start date for this project, an estimated start date of March 1, 2023 has been chosen. All other milestone dates are based on setting this as the Kick-Off Meeting (KOM) date, in accordance with Table B-2 Planned Schedules and Meeting Locations in the AO. The Gantt Chart can be found in Appendix A.  21 Work Breakdown Structure The Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is part of the Gantt chart insofar as how the tasks are broken down. However, a standalone WBS can be found in Appendix B.  CubeSat Payload Development Plan Similar to the previous CubeSat developed by the team, part of the payload will be experimental dosimeter boards. The boards will measure and record the radiation levels detected by the new cost-effective dosimeter sensor being developed by Dr. Chen and his team of researchers and compare that data to commercial dosimeter sensors (known as radFETs). The effectiveness of a melanin-based radiation shield created by Dr. Dadachova and her team of researchers will also be tested on these same dosimeter boards. This portion of the payload will be provided to the team according to specified requirements set by the team, and then integrated into the rest of the CubeSat.  The other radiation-based payload is a radiation-hardened microcontroller for a secondary OBC. The goal is to develop and test a processor that is able to resist bitflips; the processor will be situated on a secondary OBC which allows for the comparison of data and redundancy in the event of failure. The radiation-hardened microcontroller portion of the payload will also be provided to the RADSAT-SK2 team, but the on-board computer where its use is implemented will be designed by the students in collaboration with the researchers. This board development will be carried out by the electrical and software sub-teams, in collaboration with the researchers, and supported by Galaxia Mission Systems.  The deployable boom/weighted tether that is to act as a passive attitude control enhancement is a payload that team members at the University of Regina intend to design. If this deployable boom/tether is extended to varying distances (deployment settings), measurements of the stability of the CubeSat will be able to be made at these different settings to assess the degree of stabilization offered by the varying extents of the deployment. This could be a very modular payload such that if efficacy was demonstrated, it could provide the CubeSat industry with an easily attachable modular passive attitude control system.  The final piece of payload hardware, the camera, will be primarily handled by the payload sub-team. Payload, software, and comms & data handling will work together to ensure that the camera is properly programed to take pictures of the cloud cover and downlink the images for post-image processing. These teams will also work together for the other pictures of the Earth that are intended solely for public outreach.  CubeSat Bus Development Plan In the current RADSAT-SK project, all of the printed circuit boards (PCBs) are commercial off the shelf (COTS), except for the timer board. Now that the team has more experience with circuit 22 design, for RADSAT-SK2 the team intends to use in-house designs for the secondary OBC with the microcontroller, and also in-house designs for the battery and power distribution boards. Although with the first project the CubeSat is not being flown with an in-house design, the team did gain further circuit design experience by working on a design. The rest of the components that are a part of the bus will be purchased COTS.  Ground Segment The current RADSAT-SK project was given permission to use a ground station and some equipment by the University of Saskatchewan Department of Physics and Engineering Physics. The department has promised the use of the ground station to RADSAT-SK2 as well. A large amount of the equipment being used in the ground station for the first project will also likely be used for the second project.  CubeSat Operating Plan After launch, commands will be sent from our ground station to RADSAT-SK2 to establish a data link, download experimental data, control spacecraft functions, and then turn off the link. These commands include starting and stopping downlink, downlinking CubeSat status, forcing the satellite into a safe mode, rebooting the CubeSat, and requesting payload data. During a link, queued commands will be sent to the CubeSat. The data acquired at the ground station will then be sent to computers on campus and shared with researchers involved in the project. This process is repeated for the duration of the CubeSat’s life.  In order to ensure everything is done in a safe and correct manner, project managers and the principal investigator will screen students that will have any access to remote sensing data or equipment; all applicants will need to have their amateur radio license.  2.2 Project Related Risks and Mitigation Strategies Tables 2 and 3 below were used to evaluate the severity of each of the following risks.   Table 2: Definitions of Risk Probability Levels Highly Unlikely  Unlikely  Possible  Likely  Very Likely  ~10%  ~30%  ~50%  ~70%  ~90%  23    Table 3: Definitions of Impact Levels Trivial  Minor  Moderate  Major  Extreme  Little to no 
impact on the 
mission – no 
action required  Small impact on 
mission - not of 
high priority to 
resolve  Medium impact 
on mission – risk 
requires 
attention  Large impact on 
mission – risk 
requires prompt 
attention  Could result in 
mission failure – 
requires 
immediate 
attention   Table 4: Identification of Financial Risks Risk(s)  Risk 
Probability  Impact  Mitigation Strategy  
 People 
Affected  Impact of 
Inflation on 
the Budget  
 Very Likely  
Inflation will 
undoubtedly 
happen . Moderate.  
Increasing inflation 
rates could result 
in higher costs than 
initially budgeted 
for, resulting in key 
components 
becoming  more 
expens ive. Inflation was factored 
into the budget along 
with a contingency . 
Also, a large portion 
of the expenses are to 
be made earlier on in 
the project, reducing 
the amount of time for 
inflation to take place.  Principal 
Investig ator 
and 
Project 
Managers.  Not 
Facilitating  
Diligent 
Accounting  Highly 
Unlikely . 
The University , 
which will be the 
account holder, 
has systems in 
place for 
accounting.  Major. 
Not diligent  
accounting would 
result in false 
remaining balances  
in the project’s 
account which 
could lead to 
overspending.  RADSAT -SK2 has a 
Financial Project 
Manager  who will 
work closely with the 
PI to closely monitor 
the account and 
spendings. Monthly 
reconciliatio ns will be 
done to ensure 
withdrawals  match 
expenses and deposits Financial 
Project 
Manager.  24 match 
donations/grants.  Unable to Find More Partners/ Donors Possible. Contacts for sponsorship/ partnership have already been so most of the team’s connections have already been used. Minor. Impact could result in the inability to afford components for the design. The RADSAT-SK2 project has already secured a number of partners/donors. More funding would allow greater freedom in the project, but if it cannot be procured, then the project is doable within the budget made for the funds already promised (plus the CSA grant). The Outreach team, Project Managers, PI’s and Co-PI’s will continue to reach out to secure additional donors and partners. PI’s, Project Managers, and Outreach Sub- team  
 Table 5: Identification of Managerial Risks  Risk(s)  Risk 
Probability  
 Impact  Mitigation Strategy  
 People 
Affected  Student 
Turnover  Very Likely.  
As the team is 
largely 
composed of 
unpaid 
undergraduate 
students, student  
will undoubtedly  
leave the team 
as they graduate 
or develop other Extreme . 
A number of 
members are 
required on the 
team so that the 
various roles may 
be filled and the 
tasks completed.  If 
students are 
leaving the  team, 
there must be To increase member 
retention, students are 
incentivized to remain on 
the project through access 
to the potential for 
leadership experience, 
tutorials on various 
technical skills, networking 
with industry partners, 
opportunities to develop 
soft skills, and the The 
entire 
team.  25 priorities.  
 others to take on 
those roles.  potential for paid 
employment. The Outreach 
sub-team hosts recruitment 
events throughout the year 
to bring in new members. 
To prepare for senior 
members leaving, such as 
Team Leads or Project  
Managers, a co -lead is 
selected and the current 
lead mentors them for a 
month or so until they 
leave the project/step 
down.  Insufficient
Knowledge 
Transfer  Possible.  
With a high 
turnover rate of 
students, there is 
a risk that 
knowledge 
acquired while 
on the team will 
leave when that 
person leaves.  
 
Properly 
documenting 
information 
takes time and is 
sometimes 
tedious making 
members less 
inclined to want 
to do it.  Major . 
There is not enough 
time for everyone to 
take the time to 
relearn everything 
on their own , so 
knowledge  
acquired must be 
efficiently passed 
on to new/other 
members. This is 
also important 
regarding the 
history of what the 
various 
components are in 
terms of 
modifications made 
and significant 
events they have 
been through . 
 Documentation protocols 
are in place to help 
facilitate the transfer of 
knowledge and keep a 
record of decisions made 
and why. Those in 
leadership positions will 
also regularly enforce the 
use of this documentation.  
Also, all email 
communication is also sent 
to a team email address so 
that the team has access to 
the communication history 
with external sources so 
that after members a nd 
their personal emails are 
gone, the se emails can still 
be looked back upon.  The 
entire 
team.  
Breakdown 
of Unlikely . 
Effective Major . 
The timeline for Contact with  
partners /sponsors  will be Project 
manager26 Communic
ation with 
Partners / 
Sponsors  communication 
takes time from 
both parties so 
can sometimes  
be difficult 
maintain.  
 this project is short 
so it is important 
that partners are  
aware of the team’s 
activities  and know 
when their services 
are required. If a 
partner cannot 
deliver on their 
promise than it 
needs to be know 
right away so that 
another source can 
be found.  
 maintained  through 
sending them regular 
donor reports  and holiday 
greetings . Timelines will 
be provided  well in 
advance so that the 
partner is aware of when 
their services  (ex. 
vibrations testing)  will be 
required. Arrangements 
will be made  in advance 
with the details of the how 
the service will be 
performed. More follow up 
will be done immediately 
prior to the event to make 
sure everyone is still on 
track  for the timeline . s and 
team 
leads.  
 Table 6: Identification of Environmental Risks Risk(s)  Risk Probability  
 Impact  Mitigation Strategy  
 People 
Affected  Static -
Electric 
Discharge  Very  Likely.  
Saskatchewan 
experiences low 
relative humidity 
levels during the 
winter -time months . 
As humidity decreases, 
the risk of static 
electric shock  
increases 
significantly . Ma. 
The electronics 
used in the 
CubeSat are 
extremely 
sensitive. Static -
electric 
discharge (ESD) 
could seriously 
damage 
components  RADSAT -SK2 will 
have unlimited access 
to an  ISO 8 and ISO 9 
cleanroom . Many 
team members are 
already trained for 
working in these 
environments and 
more will be trained 
as they join the team. 
Flight hardware will 
only be handled in the 
ISO 9 cleanroom and 
proper ESD protocols 
are strictly enforced. The entire 
team.  27 Grounding mats, 
straps, and aluminum 
standoffs are used. To 
increase the humidity 
levels within the 
cleanroom, a highly 
effective ultrasonic 
humidifier was built.  Collision of CubeSat with Debris/ Micrometeoroids Likely. Due to the amount of space junk there is orbiting the Earth, it is highly likely that the CubeSat comes into contact with some debris or micrometeoroid. Moderate. Impact with debris or other objects during orbit could cause damage to the CubeSat; the extent of the damage will depend on the size and velocity of the debris/ micrometeoroid, location of strike on CubeSat, and other external factors. Solar panels and other components that can withstand being hit with small amounts of space debris will be selected for the design. An appropriate power budget will be designed so that if damage were inflicted on a solar panel, its reduced function would not have a significant impact. Power and electrical sub-team 
 Table 7: Identification of Scientific Risks Risk(s)  Risk 
Probability  Impact  Mitigation Strategy  People 
Affected  Inability to Test 
or Modify 
Components In -
house  Likely.  
Special tools are 
often required to 
perform tests or 
modifications on 
components.  Moderate. 
Components 
would have to be 
transported  to 
external vendors 
to be worked on.  Strategic 
partnerships have 
been made for 
RADSAT -SK2 that 
will allow the team 
access to facilities 
and equipment for 
testing and Project 
managers , 
systems sub-
team, and 
other design 
sub-teams.  28 manufacturing ( ex. 
vibrations testing  and 
other tools from 
Calian , and the 
manufacturing flight 
models of boards  at 
Galaxia Mission 
Systems ). 
Contingency has also 
been built into the 
timeline so that there 
is time to send away 
components for 
modification/testing 
if necessary.  Failure to 
Receive 
Scientific Data 
from Orbit  Possible . 
It is possible that 
malfunctions 
occur leading to  
reduced 
communication 
abilities with the 
CubeSat.  Extreme . 
Scientific data 
from payload is 
not able to be 
transmitted 
while in orbit.  Thorough testing of 
communication 
systems will be 
performed before the 
satellite is launched 
into orbit. Multiple 
‘mock missions’ will 
also be performed to 
ensure that all 
systems are operating 
as expected.  Researchers , 
communicati
ons and data 
handling  
sub-team , 
and 
operations 
sub-team    29  Table 8: Identification of Technical Risks Risk(s) Risk Probability Impact Mitigation Strategy People Affected Limited Access 
to Facilities for 
Payload/  
CubeSat AIT 
(Assembly, 
Integration, and 
Testing)  Highly  
Unlikely . 
There is  an ISO 
8 and ISO 9 
cleanroom 
located in the 
University of 
Saskatchewan 
Space Design 
Team’s team 
room   Extreme . 
Access to a  
cleanroom is 
required to 
safely work  on 
and test 
hardware  
components . 
Without the 
proper facilities, 
AIT could not 
take place.  The first 
RADSAT -SK 
team built a 
cleanroom which 
the RADSAT -
SK2 team will 
gain possession 
of as the first 
project is 
wrapped up 
shortly . The 
RADSAT -SK2 
team will have 
unlimited access 
to this 
cleanroom.  The entire team.  
Component 
Shortages  Very Likely . 
There are 
component 
shortage s due to 
current and past 
world events.   Moderate.  
Shortages would 
result in the 
components not 
coming in on 
schedule  or 
becoming 
unavailable . It 
could result in 
higher prices to 
procure the 
components from 
other companies.  Once design 
decisions are 
solidified, the 
design will be 
‘frozen’, and all 
componen ts will 
be ordered at the 
same time so 
that the planned 
materials can all 
be acquired.  All 
parts will be 
ordered early on 
in the  project.  The entire team.  
Potential Delays 
Caused by the Possible . 
The Covid -19 
pandemic seems Moderate.  
Delays would 
result in a Similar to the 
component 
shortage The entire team.  30 COVID -19 
Pandemic  to be phasing  
out, but it could  
come back.  project schedule 
disruption.  mitigation 
strategy, all 
components will 
be ordered well 
in advance of 
testing and 
assembly once 
the design in 
finalized.  No Access to a 
Ground Station  Highly  
Unlikely. 
The department 
of Physics and 
Engineering 
Physics at the 
University of 
Saskatchewan 
has unused 
ground station 
facilities.  Extreme . 
Not having 
access to a 
ground station 
would result in 
not being able to 
communicate 
with the satellite 
while in orbit.  The RADSAT -
SK2 project has 
already secured 
a partnership 
with the 
department of 
Physics in which 
the ground  
station used for 
the first 
RADSAT -SK 
project w as 
promised for 
RADSAT -SK2 
 Subteams: 
Operations, 
Attitude 
Determination 
and Control 
Systems, 
Software, 
Communication s 
and Data 
Handling.   3.0 Resources  3.1 Project Team Team History The RADSAT-SK2 3U CubeSat Project will challenge the team as it advances from the current RADSAT-SK 2U CubeSat Project which is set to launch in mid-2023. This second CubeSat will be built on the many lessons learned during the first CubeSat project on both technical and management levels. RADSAT-SK2 will be a step up in complexity from the first CubeSat project as more components are designed in-house rather than off the shelf. In this second CubeSat, the team will also strive to further optimize the design in order to increase the capabilities of the satellite.   For example, the design will include a higher-quality camera, increased data storage on the CubeSat, and increased bandwidth for uplink/downlink to the ground station.  31 The academic diversity of the current RADSAT-SK team will continue with RADSAT-SK2 as students come from a variety of academic backgrounds. The team is based in University of Saskatchewan College of Engineering and University of Regina Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science, so naturally is largely composed of engineering students. However, the team is open to students of all disciplines leading to representation from mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, software engineering, engineering physics, civil engineering, computer science, business, and education. When the project begins in March of 2023, there will be approximately 60 students between the two universities organized and ready to get started.  PI and Co-PIs Principal Investigator, Dr. Brian Berscheid The PI, Dr. Brian Berscheid, will be in charge of overseeing the project to completion. He will ensure that the team is on schedule in accordance with the Gantt Chart, and that the team is prepared for deadlines and design reviews. He will be the main point of contact between the student team and the CSA. Dr. Berscheid will also manage the budget with the help of the financial project manager and will review all purchases. With extensive design and outreach expertise, as well as knowledge from his position as a Co-PI on the first RADSAT-SK project, Dr. Berscheid will be a valuable resource for the RADSAT-SK2 team, and a key component to its success.   Co-Investigators, Dr. Sean Maw and Dr. Paul Laforge Dr. Sean Maw and Dr. Paul Laforge will be assisting Dr. Berscheid in overseeing the project. Similar to Dr. Berscheid’s role, they will ensure that the team is on schedule and is prepared for deadlines. As an associate professor at the University of Regina, Dr. Laforge will be highly involved with the University of Regina students on the team. Dr. Maw’s previous experience as the PI on the first RADSAT-SK team will be a great asset to the team.  Student Project Managers The three student project managers (PMs) work together to oversee the sub-team leads and are the primary point of communication between the PI and Co-PIs and the rest of the team. They assist in preparing project reviews, assessing the goals of the RADSAT-SK2 project, and writing documents, papers and reports. Weekly meetings are held with the PI and Co-PIs, to help facilitate communication and provide project updates. The Project Managers oversee all project subsystem teams to ensure that deadlines are met and that the team is on schedule. They organize and lead team meetings, communicate with team leads, and ensure that the training of all members is proceeding as expected. The PMs are highly aware of lessons learned during the first RADSAT-SK project and ensure that these important lessons are realized by the rest of the team. The student project managers work together to create a supportive and welcoming environment, with the goal of all students succeeding both in this project and academically. This is kept in mind when creating deadlines and assigning tasks.   32  Technical Project Manager The Technical Project Manager position, which will be held by Dustin Preece, primarily focuses on technical aspects of the project. This PM works closely with the Systems sub-team to ensure that all sub-teams are following good design practices, documentation standards, and making timely progress. They are involved in the technical designs of all of the sub-teams and work to anticipate challenges in advance. This PM is highly involved in the overseeing of risk mitigation and strives to anticipate new risks and challenges before they become an issue.  Financial Project Manager The Financial Project Manager position, which will be held by Arliss Sidloski, primarily focuses on the financial aspects of the project. This PM works closely with the PI for fundraising, budgeting, and accounting. The PM helps put through purchase requests made by team leads and ensures proper accounting of these expenses. The financial PM is the primary point of communication with donors for the project.  Human Resources (HR) and Communications Project Manager The Human Resources (HR) and Communications Project Manager position, which will be held by Layne Ransom, primarily focuses on HR issues, external relations, and outreach. This PM works closely with the outreach sub-team to put together presentations and workshops that strive to inspire others to explore STEM disciplines, particularly those relating to the space industry. As the HR point on the team, this PM works with the PI and Co-PI to help resolve any personal and intrapersonal issues within the team. They also help organize fun team building activities that function as morale boosters and work with the university’s communications department to help generate media interest about the project and team. One of the main roles and responsibilities of the HR and Communications PM is to mitigate the effects of student turnover. This PM puts a great deal of effort and focus into recruiting new members and properly training them to ensure meaningful contribution from the beginning, encouraging longevity on the team.  Sub-Teams Each sub-team has a lead/co-leads that helps organize the tasks required for that sub-team and communicates with the systems team and PMs about the progress, risks, and challenges. The leads work to ensure that their subsystem is on schedule, performing to spec, and within budget. There is constant collaboration between the different sub-teams due to the many interdependencies of the subsystems. Leads also mentor junior members of the team and train apprentices so that in the event they graduate or leave the team, there will be a member ready to take their place.    33 Systems Team Leads – Arliss Sidloski and Rhys Rybchuk The systems team works closely with the technical project manager to ensure that the technical objectives of the project are being met. They help ensure that all sub-teams are on schedule, and inform the PMs of any issues that arise. The team also breaks down the requirements of the project to influence the design of each sub-team. Systems members work with each sub-team to ensure that in the end their subsystem is fully tested and will integrate well with the other subsystems so that a fully integrated CubeSat can be delivered for launch.  Outreach Team Lead – Layne Ransom The outreach team leads will be working closely with the PMs, PI, and Co-PI to ensure that the outreach objectives and goals are being met. They work especially closely with the HR & Communications PM to plan promotional and learning events, including conferences and school presentations. The outreach team also works to recruit new students onto the team, especially with recruitment pushes at the start of the fall term (September) and then again at the start of the winter term (January). This team then helps these new members get situated within the team and properly orientated.  Power and Electrical Lead – Atharva Kulkarni The Power and Electrical (P&E) team will oversee the design, testing, and construction of all power, power distribution, and electrical systems, including the solar panels, power distribution board, and battery. They will also work to determine the effects of radiation exposure on electrical components and possible mitigation strategies.  Mechanical Lead – Ryan Aulie The Mechanical team is focused on the design, testing, and construction of all mechanical systems, including the frame and assembly of the other systems into the frame. They work on hardware design of safety triggers and thermal and radiation protection systems. A variety of simulations will be done on the components to ensure that all requirements are met regarding stress, thermal exposure, and vibrations.  Software and Command Lead – Austin Hruska The Software and Command team is responsible for the development of software related to: - Automatic attitude control - Systems deployment - Power management and monitoring 34 - Image capture and sharing - Communications between on-board sensors & components - They will also be responsible for the design and testing of the onboard computer  Communications and Data Handling Lead – Brian Pitzel The Communications and Data Handling (C&DH) team is responsible for managing all ground communications, as well as processing and transmitting scientific data. They will also be responsible for the management of data received at the ground station.  Payload Lead – Ian Lambert The Payload team with have a division at the University of Saskatchewan and another at the University of Regina. University of Saskatchewan students will largely be working on the camera and with the researchers regarding the radiation-based experiments. University of Regina students will primarily be working on the deployable boom/weighted tether that serves as a passive attitude control enhancement. The University of Regina division will also be working especially closely with the Attitude Determination and Control Systems (ADCS) Team for the implementation of this payload.   Attitude Determination and Control Systems (ADCS) Lead – Rylee Moody The Attitude Determination and Dynamics Control team will be responsible for modeling and developing system designs related to the determination and control of the satellite's attitude and position. This will involve: - Modeling the orbital dynamics of the satellite - Working with other teams to develop the attitude control system They will primarily work with hysteresis rods and permanent magnets, in addition to collaborating with the University of Regina Payload division for the deployable boom/weighted tether.  3.2 Budget, Funding, Physical Resources and Infrastructure, Support from industry and other Stakeholders  Budget The detailed budget found in Appendix C was made upon reflection of the budget for the first RADSATSAT-SK project. An increase in prices and the size of the CubeSat, as well as the tools, equipment, and other resources the team has acquired were accounted for when making this budget. Note that the University of Saskatchewan College of Engineering and the University of Regina Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science are making contributions of $30K and 35 $20K, respectively, in addition to the PI and Co-I’s salary. Other in-kind and monetary contributions include: $25,000 from the University of Saskatchewan Space Design Team, $47,500 from Galaxia Mission Systems, and $30,000 from the University of Saskatchewan Department of Physics and Engineering Physics. RMD Engineering, Calian Advanced Technologies, and Magnestar Inc. are also confirmed partners for RADSAT-SK2, though the details of those partnerships are not confirmed at the time of writing this application. It is also anticipated that the RADSAT-SK2 team will collaborate with students and/or faculty at Saskatchewan Polytechnic, as in the original RADSAT-SK project, but the partnership details will be finalized at a later date.  Infrastructure The RADSAT-SK2 project will use much of the same infrastructure as the first RADSAT-SK project, so everything is already ready to go. RADSAT-SK2 already has a cleanroom, team room space, and a ground station lined up to use. The cleanroom was built by the first RADSAT-SK project, so RADSAT-SK2 will have unlimited use of it. The University of Saskatchewan Space Design Team has promised the use of their team room again, as was used for the first RADSAT-SK project, and the University of Saskatchewan Department of Physics and Engineering Physics promised the use of the ground station that is being used for the first project, so the team already has access to it. These commitments are detailed in the letters of support in the appendices.  Licensing The first RADSAT-SK project was able to successfully obtain licensing with few issues. The expertise developed in writing and submitting these licensing applications will remain within the team and will be used to successfully obtain licensing for RADSAT-SK2. Galaxia Mission Systems has promised a number of consultation hours as an in-kind donation, some of which could be allocated to helping obtain the proper licensing if needed.    Appendix A for Section 2 of RADSAT-SK2 Application Package Project Gantt Chart                    Task Sub Task Start EndJan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar1.1 Financial 1.1.1 Fundraising Activities Mar 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.1.2 Accounting Activities Mar 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.1.3 Budgeting Activities Mar 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.1.4 Prep/Distribution of Sponsorship/Donor Materials Mar 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.1.5 Quarterly Financial Reviews Jun 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.1.6 Annual Financial Reviews Mar 1, 2024 Mar 1, 20261.2 HR, Promotion and Outreach1.2.1 Social Media Promotions/Website Mar 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.2.2 Media Events Mar 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.2.3 Prep/Distribution of Promotional Materials Mar 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.2.4 Recruitment of Team Members/Leaders Mar 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.2.5 Orientation of New Members/Training Activities Mar 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.2.6 Organization of Team Building Events Mar 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.2.7 Preparation of Outreach Activities/Materials Mar 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20261.2.8 Delivery of Outreach Presentations/Activities Jul 1, 2023 Mar 1, 20262.1 Radiation Experiments/Payloads2.1.1 Detailed Problem Definition Mar 1, 2023 Mar 30, 20232.2 Attitude Control Experiments/Payloads2.2.1 Detailed Problem Definition Mar 1, 2023 Mar 30, 20232.3 Camera and Cloud Research Experiments/Payloads2.3.1 Detailed Problem Definition Mar 1, 2023 Mar 30, 20232.4 Mission Integration2.4.1 Initial Space, Power, Computing, Thermal and Communications Budgets Mar 30, 2023 Apr 30, 20232.4.2 Initial Sub-Team Scope Characterizations Mar 30, 2023 Apr 30, 20232.4.3 Revisions of Payload Problem Definitions Mar 30, 2023 Apr 30, 20232.5 Mission Concept Review (MCR)May 1, 2023 May 8, 20233.1 Revise Mission Definition May 8, 2023 May 15, 20233.2 Payloads3.2.1 Preliminary Designs May 15, 2023 Aug 1, 20233.2.2 Revision of Preliminary Designs Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.2.3 Specifications for required space, power, computing, telecommunicationsAug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.2.4 Finalize supporting software algorithms Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.2.5 Initial payload budgets and BOMs Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.3 Mechanical 3.3.1 Preliminary Designs May 15, 2023 Aug 1, 20233.3.2 Revision of Preliminary Designs Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.3.3 Initial Mechanical budget and BOM Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.4 Communications3.4.1 Preliminary Designs May 15, 2023 Aug 1, 20233.4.2 Revision of Preliminary Designs Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.4.3 Specifications for required space, power, computing Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.4.4 Finalize supporting software algorithms Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.4.5 Initial Comms budget and BOM Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.5 Attitude Determination and Control Systems3.5.1 Preliminary Designs May 15, 2023 Aug 1, 20233.5.2 Revision of Preliminary Designs Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.5.3 Specifications for required space, power, computing Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.5.4 Finalize supporting software algorithms Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.5.5 Initial ADCS budget and BOM Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.6 Power & Electrical 3.6.1 Preliminary Designs May 15, 2023 Aug 1, 20233.6.2 Revision of Preliminary Designs Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.6.3 Specifications for required space, computing, thermal control Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.6.4 Finalize supporting software algorithms Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.6.5 Initial P&E budget and BOM Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.7 Software 3.7.1 Preliminary Algorithm Design May 15, 2023 Aug 1, 20233.7.2 Revision of Preliminary Algorithms Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.7.3 Specifications for required computing resources Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.7.4 Initial Software budget and BOM Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.8 Operations3.8.1 Preliminary Ground Station Design May 15, 2023 Aug 1, 20233.8.2 Revision of Preliminary Designs Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.8.3 Specifications for required space, power, thermal, computing resources Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.8.4 Initial Operations budget and BOM Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.9 Systems3.9.1 Preliminary System Design May 15, 2023 Aug 1, 20233.9.2 Revision of System Design Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.9.3 Preparation of Initial Systems Documents (Specs/Interfaces/Testing) Aug 1, 2023 Sep 1, 20233.10 Internal Preliminary Design Review Aug 1, 2023 Aug 8, 20233.11 Preliminary Design Review (PDR)Sep 1, 2023 Sep 1, 2023RADSAT-SK2 CubeSat Project Gantt Chart2023202420252026Preliminary DesignQuarter 4Quarter 1AdministrativeMission DefinitionQuarter 2Quarter 3Quarter 4Quarter 1Quarter 2Quarter 3Quarter 1Quarter 2Quarter 3Quarter 4Quarter 1Task Sub Task Start EndJan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar4.1 Revise Preliminary DesignSep 1, 2023 Oct 1, 20234.2 Payloads4.2.1 Detailed Design (inc. prototyping) Oct 1, 2023 Feb 1, 20244.2.2 Revision of Detailed Design Jan 8, 2024 May 1, 20244.2.3 Ordering/Fabrication of Flight Hardware (at latest) Mar 1, 2024 Apr 1, 20244.2.4 Coding of algorithms Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.2.5 Finalize system testing plans Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.3 Mechanical4.3.1 Detailed Design (inc. prototyping) Oct 1, 2023 Feb 1, 20244.3.2 Revision of Detailed Design Jan 8, 2024 May 1, 20244.3.3 Ordering/Fabrication of Flight Hardware (at latest) Mar 1, 2024 Apr 1, 20244.3.4 Finalize system testing plans Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.4 Communications 4.4.1 Apply for Licenses Oct 1, 2023 Dec 1, 20234.4.2 Detailed Design (inc. prototyping) Oct 1, 2023 Feb 1, 20244.4.3 Revision of Detailed Design Jan 8, 2024 May 1, 20244.4.4 Ordering/Fabrication of Flight Hardware (at latest) Mar 1, 2024 Apr 1, 20244.4.5 Coding of algorithms Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.4.6 Finalize system testing plans Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.5 Attitude Determination & Control Systems4.5.1 Detailed Design (inc. prototyping) Oct 1, 2023 Feb 1, 20244.5.2 Revision of Detailed Design Jan 8, 2024 May 1, 20244.5.3 Ordering/Fabrication of Flight Hardware (at latest) Mar 1, 2024 Apr 1, 20244.5.4 Coding of algorithms Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.5.5 Finalize system testing plans Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.6 Power & Electrical4.6.1 Detailed Design (inc. prototyping) Oct 1, 2023 Feb 1, 20244.6.2 Revision of Detailed Design Jan 8, 2024 May 1, 20244.6.3 Ordering/Fabrication of Flight Hardware (at latest) Mar 1, 2024 Apr 1, 20244.6.4 Coding of algorithms Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.6.5 Finalize system testing plans Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.7 Software 4.6.1 Detailed Design (inc. prototyping) Oct 1, 2023 Feb 1, 20244.6.2 Revision of Detailed Design Jan 8, 2024 May 1, 20244.6.3 Ordering/Fabrication of Flight Hardware (at latest) Mar 1, 2024 Apr 1, 20244.6.4 Coding of algorithms Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.6.5 Finalize system testing plans Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.8 Operations 4.7.1 Detailed Design (inc. prototyping) Oct 1, 2023 Feb 1, 20244.7.2 Revision of Detailed Design Jan 8, 2024 May 1, 20244.7.3 Ordering/Fabrication of Ground Station Hardware (at latest) Mar 1, 2024 Apr 1, 20244.7.4 Coding of algorithms Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.7.5 Finalize system testing plans Mar 1, 2024 Jun 1, 20244.9 Systems 4.8.1 Completion/Compilation of Testing Plans, BOMs Oct 1, 2023 Feb 1, 20244.8.2 Revision of Testing Plans, BOMs Jan 8, 2024 May 1, 20244.10 Internal Critical Design Review Feb 15, 2024 Mar 1, 20244.11 Critical Design Review (CDR)May 15, 2024 May 30, 20245.1 Revise Detailed DesignMay 30, 2024 Jun 30, 20245.2 Assembly and Integration5.2.1 Subsystem Testing Jul 1, 2024 Aug 1, 20245.2.2 Flatsat Build Aug 1, 2024 Sep 1, 20245.3 Flatsat Testing5.3.1 System Testing Sep 1, 2024 Oct 1, 20245.4 External Testing5.4.1 Fit Tests Oct 1, 2024 Oct 15, 20245.4.2 Environmental (Vacuum/Thermal) Testing Oct 15, 2024 Nov 1, 20245.4.3 Vibration Testing Nov 1, 2024 Nov 15, 20245.5 Flight Readiness Review (FRR)Nov 15, 2024 Dec 1, 2024CubeSat Ready for Launch 6.1 Satellite Operations6.1.1 Establish communications/conduct comms tests Apr 1, 2025 May 1, 20256.1.2 Download experimental data and imagery May 1, 2025 Mar 1, 20266.1.3 Analyze/process data May 1, 2025 Mar 1, 20266.2 Mission Wrap Up6.2.1 Dissemination of Results Jul 1, 2025 Mar 1, 20266.2.2 Inform Regularly Bodies of Mission Completion Mar 1, 2026 Mar 1, 2026Mission Finished!RADSAT-SK2 Project Gantt Chart2023202420252026Quarter 1Detailed DesignQuarter 2Quarter 3Quarter 4Quarter 1Quarter 2Quarter 3Quarter 1Quarter 2Quarter 3Quarter 4Quarter 1Assembly, Integration and TestingDec 1, 2024Satellite OperationsMar 1, 2026Quarter 4  Appendix B for Section 2 of RADSAT-SK2 Application Package Project Work Breakdown Structure (WBS)                    RADSAT-SK2 CubeSat Project Work Breakdown Structure  1 Financial  1.1 Fundraising activities  1.2 Accounting activities  1.3 Budgeting activities  1.4 Preparation and distribution of sponsorship/donor materials  1.5 Quarterly financial reviews 1.6 Annual financial reviews    2 HR, Promotion and Outreach  2.1 Social media promotions  2.2 Updating website  2.3 Media events  2.4 Preparation and distribution of sponsorship/donor materials  2.5 Recruitment  of team members and leads  2.6 Orientation of new members and training activities  2.7 Organizing team building events  2.8 Preparation of outreach activities and materials 2.9 Delivery of outreach presentations and activities    3 Payloads  3.1 Preliminary subsystem designs  3.2 Revision of preliminary subsystem designs  3.3 Specifications for required space, power, computing, telecommunications  3.4 Finalize supporting software algorithms  3.5 Payloads budgets and BOMs  3.6 Detailed subsystems designs  3.7 Revision of detailed subsystems designs  3.8 Order/fabricate flight hardware  3.9 Coding of algorithms  3.10 Payloads test plans  3.11 Subsystem testing  3.12 FlatSat build  3.13 FlatSat testing  3.14 Analyze and process data  3.15 Dissemination of results    4 Communications  4.1 Preliminary subsystem designs  4.2 Revision of preliminary subsystem designs  4.3 Specifications for required space, power, computing  4.4 Finalize supporting software algorithms  4.5 Comms budget and BOM  4.6 Apply for licenses  4.7 Detailed subsystem designs and prototyping  4.8 Revision of detailed subsystem designs  4.9 Order/fabricate flight hardware 4.10 Coding of algorithms  4.11 Comms test plans  4.12 Subsystem testing  4.13 FlatSat build  4.14 FlatSat testing  4.15 Establish communications and conduct comms tests  4.16 Download experimental data and imagery    5 Attitude Determination and Control Systems (ADCS)  5.1 Preliminary subsystem designs 5.2 Revision of preliminary subsystem designs  5.3 Specifications for required space, power, computing  5.4 Finalize supporting software algorithms  5.5 ADCS budget and BOM  5.6 Detailed subsystem designs and prototyping  5.7 Revision of detailed subsystem designs  5.8 Order/fabricate flight hardware  5.9 Coding of algorithms  5.10 ADCS test plans  5.11 Subsystem testing  5.12 FlatSat build  5.13 FlatSat testing    6 Power and Electrical (P&E)  6.1 Preliminary subsystem designs  6.2 Revision of preliminary subsystem designs  6.3 Specifications for required space, thermal control, computing  6.4 Finalize supporting software algorithms  6.5 P&E budget and BOM  6.6 Detailed subsystem designs and prototyping  6.7 Revision of detailed subsystem designs  6.8 Order/fabricate flight hardware  6.9 Coding of algorithms  6.10 P&E test plans  6.11 Subsystem testing  6.12 FlatSat build  6.13 FlatSat testing    7 Operations  7.1 Prliminary ground station design 7.2 Revision of preliminary designs  7.3 Specifications for required space, power, thermal, computing resources  7.4 Operations budget and BOM  7.5 Detailed design and prototyping  7.6 Revision of detailed design  7.7 Order/fabricate ground station hardware  7.8 Coding of algorithms  7.9 Operations test plans  7.10 Subsystem testing  7.11 Download experimental data and imagery 1.12 Analyze and process data    8 Mechanical  8.1 Preliminary subsystem design  8.2 Revision of preliminary subsystem design  8.3 Mechanical budget  and BOM  8.4 Detailed design and prototyping  8.5 Revision of detailed design  8.6 Order/fabricate flight hardware  8.7 Mechanical test plans  8.8 Fit tests  8.9 Environmental (vacuum/thermal) testing  8.10 Vibration testing    9 Software  9.1 Preliminary algorithm design  9.2 Revision of preliminary algorithms  9.3 Specifications for required computing resources  9.4 Software budget and BOM  9.5 Detailed design and prototyping  9.6 Revision of detailed design  9.7 Order/fabricate flight hardware  9.8 Coding of algorithms  9.9 Software test plans  9.10 Subsystem testing  9.11 FlatSat build  9.12 FlatSat testing  9.13 Establish communications and conduct comms tests  9.14 Download experimental data and imagery    10 Systems  10.1 Preliminary system design  10.2 Revision of preliminary system design  10.3 Preparation of documents (specs/interfaces/testing)  10.4 Complete/compile test plans and BOMs  10.5 Revisions of test plans and BOMs  10.6 FlatSat build  10.7 FlatSat  testing     Appendix C for Section 2 of RADSAT-SK2 Application Package Project Budget                    Master BudgetMarch 2023-Q2, 2026Income In-kind Cash In-kind Cash In-kind Cash In-kind Cash CSA Grant -$                  200,000.00$   -$                  150,000.00$   -$                  -$                  -$                  350,000.00$    University of Saskatchewan College of Engineering -$                  15,000.00$     -$                  15,000.00$     -$                  -$                  -$                  30,000.00$     University of Regina Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science -$                  10,000.00$     -$                  10,000.00$     -$                  -$                  -$                  20,000.00$      University of Saskatchewan Space Design Team 5,000.00$        5,000.00$        5,000.00$        5,000.00$        5,000.00$        -$                  15,000.00$     10,000.00$      Galaxia Mission Systems 25,000.00$     -$                  22,500.00$     -$                  -$                  -$                  47,500.00$     -$                   University of Saskatchewan Department of Physics & Engineering Physics  10,000.00$     -$                  10,000.00$     -$                  10,000.00$     -$                  30,000.00$     -$                   RMD Engineering Magnestar Inc Calian Advanced Technologies  Total Income 40,000.00$     230,000.00$   37,500.00$     180,000.00$   15,000.00$     -$                  92,500.00$     410,000.00$   Expenses In-kind Cash In-kind Cash In-kind Cash In-kind CashAdministrative ExpensesOutreach/Promotional -$                  4,000.00$        -$                  4,000.00$        -$                  7,000.00$        -$                  15,000.00$     Team 25,000.00$     34,250.00$     22,500.00$     34,250.00$     -$                  1,500.00$        47,500.00$     70,000.00$     Other Administrative Costs 15,000.00$     2,000.00$        15,000.00$     2,000.00$        15,000.00$     1,750.00$        45,000.00$     5,750.00$        Sub-Totals 40,000.00$     40,250.00$     37,500.00$     40,250.00$     15,000.00$     10,250.00$     92,500.00$     90,750.00$     In-kind Cash In-kind Cash In-kind Cash In-kind CashTravel ExpensesConferences, Workshops, and Project Reviews-$                  19,000.00$     -$                  19,000.00$     -$                  13,750.00$     -$                  51,750.00$     In-kind Cash In-kind Cash In-kind Cash In-kind CashSubteam ExpensesSystems -$                  8,000.00$        -$                  6,500.00$        -$                  2,000.00$        -$                  16,500.00$     Mechanical -$                  15,500.00$     -$                  5,000.00$         $                -    $                -   -$                  20,500.00$     Power and Electrical -$                  58,000.00$     -$                  7,000.00$         $                -    $                -   -$                  65,000.00$     Software -$                  18,000.00$     -$                  14,000.00$      $                -    $                -   -$                  32,000.00$     Attitude Determination and Control Systems -$                  750.00$           -$                  750.00$            $                -    $                -   -$                  1,500.00$        Payload -$                  30,500.00$     -$                  30,500.00$     -$                  -$                  -$                  61,000.00$     Communications and Data Handling -$                  20,000.00$     -$                  20,000.00$     -$                  -$                  -$                  40,000.00$     Operations -$                  3,000.00$        -$                  3,000.00$        -$                  3,000.00$        -$                  9,000.00$        Contingency and Inflation -$                  9,000.00$        -$                  9,000.00$        -$                  4,000.00$        -$                  22,000.00$     Sub-Totals -$                  162,750.00$   -$                  95,750.00$     -$                  9,000.00$        -$                  267,500.00$   Total Expenses40,000.00$     222,000.00$   37,500.00$     155,000.00$   15,000.00$     33,000.00$     92,500.00$     410,000.00$   *Note that any contingency funds left over by the end of year 2 will be put towards sending team members to watch the launch Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Total (3 Years)
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Total (3 Years)TBDTBDTBDYear 1March 2023-March 2024Income In-kind Cash CSA Grant -$                 200,000.00$    University of Saskatchewan College of Engineering -$                 15,000.00$     University of Regina Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science -$                 10,000.00$      University of Saskatchewan Space Design Team (USST) 5,000.00$       5,000.00$        Galaxia Mission Systems 25,000.00$     -$                  University of Saskatchewan Department of Physics & Engineering Physics  10,000.00$     -$                  RMD Engineering Magnestar Inc Calian Advanced Technologies  Total Year 1 Income 40,000.00$     230,000.00$  Expenses In-kind CashOutreach Events 1,500.00$       Promotional Costs 1,000.00$       Sponsorship Events 1,500.00$       Student Salaries 31,250.00$     Internal Design Reviews 500.00$          Merchandise 1,000.00$       Consulting Servives 25,000.00$     Travel for Collaboration (Regina - Saskatoon) 1,500.00$       Publication Fees 1,000.00$       Use of USST Space, Tools, and Platforms 5,000.00$       Use of Ground Station and Equipment 10,000.00$     Administrative Contingency 1,000.00$       Total Admin Expenses 40,000.00$     40,250.00$     Flights 3,000.00$       Accommodations 1,600.00$       Ground Transportation 400.00$          Food 1,000.00$       Conference Fees 750.00$          Flights 3,000.00$       Accommodations 1,350.00$       Ground Transportation 300.00$          Food 600.00$          Flights 3,000.00$       Accommodations 1,600.00$       Ground Transportation 400.00$          Food 1,000.00$       Travel Contingency 1,000.00$       Total Travel Expenses-$                 19,000.00$     Cleanroom Upkeep 1,000.00$       Cleanroom PPE and Disposables 1,500.00$       FlatSat Setup 2,000.00$       Communication and Data Storage Platforms 1,000.00$       Wires 500.00$          Crimping Tools 2,000.00$       Frame 15,000.00$     3D Printing 500.00$          Solar Panels 45,000.00$     Power Distribution Board 5,000.00$       Battery Board 5,000.00$       Prototyping 3,000.00$       On Board Computer (Engineering Model) 10,000.00$     OBC Daughterboard 5,000.00$       Prototyping 3,000.00$       Magnets 250.00$          Hysterisis Rods 500.00$          Camera (Engineering Model) 15,000.00$     Dosimeter Boards (Engineering Model) 500.00$          Deployable Boom/Tether 15,000.00$     Transceiver (Engineering Model) 10,000.00$     Antenna (Engineering Model) 10,000.00$     Connectors 500.00$          Wires 1,000.00$       Computers 500.00$          Licenses 1,000.00$       Contingency for Subsystem Hardware, Parts, Tools, and Inflation 9,000.00$       Total Subteam Expenses (Hardware, Parts and Tools)-$                 162,750.00$   Total Year 1 Expenses40,000.00$     222,000.00$  Software
Subteam ContingencyCommunications and Data HandlingAttitude Determination and Control Systems
OperationsPayloadTBDTBDTBD
Power and ElectricalOther Administrative CostsTeam Outreach/PromotionalAdministrative Expenses
Travel ExpensesPreliminary Design Review (3 people)CASI (3 people)CSA Workshop (3 people)
SystemsMechanicalContingencySubteam Expenses (Hardware, Parts, and Tools)Year 2March 2024-March 2025Income In-kind Cash CSA Grant -$                 150,000.00$    University of Saskatchewan College of Engineering -$                 15,000.00$     University of Regina Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science -$                 10,000.00$      University of Saskatchewan Space Design Team (USST) 5,000.00$       5,000.00$        Galaxia Mission Systems 22,500.00$     -$                  University of Saskatchewan Department of Physics & Engineering Physics  10,000.00$     -$                  RMD Engineering Magnestar Inc Calian Advanced Technologies  Total Year 2 Income 37,500.00$     180,000.00$  Expenses In-kind CashOutreach Events 1,500.00$       Promotional Costs 1,000.00$       Sponsorship Events 1,500.00$       Student Salaries 31,250.00$     Internal Design Reviews 500.00$          Merchandise 1,000.00$       Consulting Servives 22,500.00$     Travel for Collaboration (Regina - Saskatoon) 1,500.00$       Publication Fees 1,000.00$       Use of USST Space, Tools, and Platforms 5,000.00$       Use of Ground Station and Equipment 10,000.00$     Administrative Contingency 1,000.00$       Total Admin Expenses 37,500.00$     40,250.00$     Flights 3,000.00$       Accommodations 1,600.00$       Ground Transportation 400.00$          Food 1,000.00$       Flights 3,000.00$       Accommodations 1,600.00$       Ground Transportation 400.00$          Food 1,000.00$       Flights 3,000.00$       Accommodations 1,600.00$       Ground Transportation 400.00$          Food 1,000.00$       Travel Contingency 1,000.00$       Total Travel Expenses-$                 19,000.00$     Cleanroom Upkeep 1,000.00$       Cleanroom PPE and Disposables 1,500.00$       Full Assembly Materials and Tools 1,500.00$       Epoxy 1,000.00$       Communication and Data Storage Platforms 1,000.00$       Wires 500.00$          Anodization of Frame 3,000.00$       3D Printing 500.00$          Assembly Tools 500.00$          Assembly Materials 1,000.00$       Power Distribution Board 3,000.00$       Battery Board 3,000.00$       Prototyping 1,000.00$       On Board Computer (Flight Model) 10,000.00$     OBC Daughterboard 3,000.00$       Prototyping 1,000.00$       Magnets 250.00$          Hysterisis Rods 500.00$          Camera (Flight Model) 15,000.00$     Dosimeter Boards (Flight Model) 500.00$          Deployable Boom/Tether (Flight Model) 15,000.00$     Transceiver (Flight Model) 10,000.00$     Antenna (Flight Model) 10,000.00$     Connectors 500.00$          Wires 1,000.00$       Computers 500.00$          Licenses 1,000.00$       Contingency for Subsystem Hardware, Parts, Tools, and Inflation 9,000.00$       Total Subteam Expenses (Hardware, Parts and Tools)-$                 95,750.00$     Total Year 2 Expenses37,500.00$     155,000.00$  Travel Expenses
OperationsSubteam ContingencyCritical Design Review (3 people)Test Readiness Review (3 people)CSA Workshop (3 people)
SystemsMechanicalPower and ElectricalContingencySubteam Expenses (Hardware, Parts, and Tools)
SoftwareAttitude Determination and Control SystemsPayloadCommunications and Data HandlingTBDTBDTBDOutreach/Promotional
Other Administrative CostsTeam Administrative ExpensesYear 3March 2025-March 2026Income In-kind Cash CSA Grant -$                 -$                  University of Saskatchewan College of Engineering -$                 -$                 University of Regina Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science -$                 -$                  University of Saskatchewan Space Design Team (USST) 5,000.00$       -$                  Galaxia Mission Systems -$                 -$                  University of Saskatchewan Department of Physics & Engineering Physics  10,000.00$     -$                  RMD Engineering Magnestar Inc Calian Advanced Technologies  Total Year 3 Income 15,000.00$     -$                 Expenses In-kind CashOutreach Events 1,500.00$       Promotional Costs 1,000.00$       Sponsorship Events 1,500.00$       Launch Party 3,000.00$       Merchandise 1,000.00$       Travel for Collaboration (Regina - Saskatoon) 500.00$          Publication Fees 1,000.00$       Use of USST Space, Tools, and Platforms 5,000.00$       Use of Ground Station and Equipment 10,000.00$     Administrative Contingency 750.00$          Total Admin Expenses 15,000.00$     10,250.00$     Conference Fees 750.00$          Flights 3,000.00$       Accommodations 1,600.00$       Ground Transportation 400.00$          Food 1,000.00$       Flights 3,000.00$       Accommodations 1,600.00$       Ground Transportation 400.00$          Food 1,000.00$       Travel Contingency 1,000.00$       Total Travel Expenses-$                 13,750.00$     Cleanroom Upkeep 1,000.00$       Communication and Data Storage Platforms 1,000.00$       Connectors 500.00$          Wires 1,000.00$       Computers 500.00$          Licenses 1,000.00$       Contingency for Subsystem Hardware, Parts, Tools, and Inflation 4,000.00$       Total Subteam Expenses (Hardware, Parts and Tools)-$                 9,000.00$       Total Year 3 Expenses15,000.00$     33,000.00$     
.Travel Expenses
Subteam Expenses (Hardware, Parts, and Tools)OperationsSubteam ContingencyCubeSat Conference (3 people)Integration (3 people)
SystemsContingencyTBDTBDTBD
Other Administrative CostsOutreach/PromotionalTeamAdministrative Expenses